The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its sixty -sixth session in Vienna from 31 May to 9 June 2
The officers of the Committee were as follows: Chair Omran Sharaf (United Arab Emirates) First Vice-Chair Carolina Rêgo Costa (Portugal) Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur Oleg Ventskovsky (Ukraine) 
At the 802nd meeting of the Committee, on 31 May, following the vacant position of First Vice-Chair for 2023, Carolina Rêgo Costa (Portugal) was elected First Vice-Chair of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. A. Meetings of subsidiary bodies 
The Scientific and Technical Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its sixtieth session in Vienna from 6 to 17 February 2023, in a hybrid format, with Juan Francisco Facetti (Paraguay) as Chair. The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/1279). 
The Legal Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its sixty-second session in Vienna from 20 March to 31 March 2023, also in a hybrid format, with Nomfuneko Majaja (South Africa) as Chair. The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/1285). B. Adoption of the agenda 
-11905 At its 802nd meeting, on 31 May, the Committee adopted the following agenda: 
Opening of the session. 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purpo ses. 
Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixtieth session. 
Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty-second session. 
Space and sustainable development. 
Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status. 
Space and water. 
Space and climate change. 
Use of space technology in the United Nations system. 
Future role and method of work of the Committee. 
Space exploration and innovation. 
“Space2030” Agenda. 
Other matters. 
Report of the Committee to the General Assembly. 1 A/78/20 C. Membership 
In accordance with General Assembly resolutions 1472 A (XIV), 1721 E (XVI), 3182 (XXVIII), 32/196 B, 35/16, 49/33, 56/51, 57/116, 59/116, 62/217, 65/97, 66/71, 68/75, 69/85, 71/90, 72/77, 74/82, 76/76, 77/121 and decisions 45/315, 67/412, 67/528, 70/518 and 73/517, the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was composed of the following 102 States: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leon e, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Türkiye, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. D. Attendance 
Representatives of the following 86 States members of the Committee attended the session: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Türkiye, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Unit ed Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Uzbekistan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). 
The session was attended by representatives of the European Union, in its capacity as permanent observer of the Committee and in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 65/276 and 73/
At its 802nd meeting, the Committee decided to admit the Holy See as an observer, at its request, to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that doing so would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
At its 802nd meeting, the Committee decided to admit the Sovereign Order of Malta as an observer, at its request, to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that doing so would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
Observers for the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and the Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat attended the session. 
The session was attended by observers for the following intergovernmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee: Asia -Pacific Space Cooperation Organization (APSCO), Committee on Earth Observation 2 23-11905 A/78/20 Satellites (CEOS), European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere (ESO), European Space Agency (ESA), European Telecommunications Satellite Organization, International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT), International Organization of Space Communications (Intersputnik) and Square Kilometre Array Observatory. 
The session was also attended by observers for the following non -governmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee: African Association of Remote Sensing of the Environment, CANEUS International, Eurisy, European Space Policy Institute, For All Moonkind, Inter-Islamic Network on Space Sciences and Technology (ISNET), International Academy of Astronautics (IAA), International Astronautical Federation (IAF), International Astronomical Union (IAU), International Institute of Space Law, Moon Village Association, National Space Society, Open Lunar Foundation, Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water, Secure World Foundation (SWF), Space Generation Advisory Council (SGAC), University Space Engineering Consortium-Global (UNISEC-Global) and World Space Week Association. 
At its 802nd meeting, the Committee decided to admit the European Astronomical Society and Three Country-Trusted Broker as observers, at their request, to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that doing so would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
A list of representatives of States members of the Committee, United Nations entities and other organizations attending the session is contained in A/AC.105/2023/INF/
E. General statements 
Statements were made by representatives of the following States members of the Committee during the general exchange of views: Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Czechia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Singapore, Slovakia Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Türkiye, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Uzbekistan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). The representative of Pakistan made a statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. The representative of Ghana made a statement on behalf of the Group of African States. The representative of the European Union, in its capacity as permanent observer, made a statement on behalf of the European Union and its member States. Further statements were made by the observers for APSCO, African Association of Remote Sensing of the Environment, CANEUS International, CEOS, the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, the European Astronomical Society, the European Space Policy Institute, the European Telecommunications Satellite Organization, the European Association for the International Space Year, For All Moonkind, IAA, IAF, IAU, ISNET, ITU, Moon Village Association, the National Space Society, the Open Lunar Foundation, SGAC, the Square Kilometre Array Observatory, SWF, UNIDROIT, UNISEC -Global and World Space Week Association. 
At the 802nd meeting, on 31 May, the Chair delivered a statement in which he highlighted significant advances in space endeavours since the last session of the Committee. He underscored the role of the Committee and its subcommittees as unique platforms for fostering dialogue, strengthening international collaboration in the peaceful uses of outer space and advancing global governance of outer space activities, in particular given the unprecedented rate of development of new 23-11905 3 A/78/20 technologies in the space sector and the increased diversification of space actors. He stressed the importance of space science, technology and its ap plications for sustainable socioeconomic development and expressed his hope that the role of space activities would find their place in the political declaration of the Sustainable Development Goals Summit. 
The Chair warmly welcomed Guatemala and Uzbekistan as the newest members of the Committee, which brought the membership of the Committee to 102 member States. The Chair also welcomed the Association for the Development of the Atlantic International Research Centre, the Access Space Alliance, the Hague In stitute for Global Justice and the International Peace Alliance (Space) as the newest international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations with observer status with the Committee. 
Also at the 802nd meeting, the Acting Director of the Office f or Outer Space Affairs made a statement in which he reviewed the work carried out by the Office. In that connection, he stressed the ongoing importance of collaboration with an ever-increasing number of partners, from governmental authorities and space agencies to international organizations, academia and the commercial space sector. He also recalled the Office’s continued commitment to implementing its core mission of bringing the benefits of space to everyone, leveraging the role of space to support sustainable development and policy- and decision-making processes related to outer space, including within the United Nations system. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “China’s space cooperation: future plans and prospects”, by the representative of China; (b) “Emerging space ecosystem in India”, by the representative of India; (c) “G20 and the global South space cooperation to develop an accessible, self-sustaining space economy”, by the observer for CANEUS International; (d) “Legal and ethical context for the utilization of resources in outer space”, by the observer for For All Moonkind; (e) “The First International Moon Day results and outlook for 2023”, by the observer for Moon Village Association; (f) “Space4All research and capacity-building: space renaissance, EuroMoonMars and Eurospacehub highlights”, by the observer for National Space Society. 
The Committee reaffirmed that, together with its subcommittees, and with the support of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, it remained the unique international forum tasked with promoting international cooperation in the exploration and peaceful use of outer space. 
The Committee agreed that the increasing number of States becoming members of the Committee was a clear signal of the international recognition of the value of the work of the intergovernmental body. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the most important principles that should govern activities in outer space included universal and equal access to outer space for all countries, regardless of their level of scientific, technical and economic development, without discrimination; the equitable and rational use of outer space for the benefit of and in the interests of all humankind; the principle of non -appropriation of outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies; international cooperation in the development of space activities, especially those referred to in the Declaration on International Cooperation in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space for the Benefit and in the Interest of All States, Taking in Particular Account the Needs of Developing Countries (General Assembly resolution 51/122, annex). 4 23-11905 A/78/20 
The view was expressed that true multilateralism should ensure the participation, and include the voices, of developing countries and emerging spacefaring countries and serve to uphold the international order in outer space. The delegation expressing that view was also of the view that all parties should avoid actions that eroded the role of the Committee and fulfil their international obligations in good faith. 
Some delegations expressed the view that capacity-building programmes in the field of space law run by the Office for Outer Space Affairs contributed positively to the long-term sustainability of outer space activities. 
The view was expressed that the Committee should make a useful contribution to how the space component will be reflected at the Summit of the Future, and that the subject of long-term sustainability should be central to that space component, while respecting the division of tasks between the relevant international organizations based in Vienna and those in Geneva. 
Some delegations welcomed the most recent signatories of the Artemis Accords on the Principles for Cooperation in the Civil Exploration and Use of the Moon, Mars, Comets, and Asteroids for Peaceful Purposes, and expressed the view that discussing the signatories’ work with the Committee would support the open and transparent sharing of information, which was essential for facilitating international cooperation and was a key principle of the Artemis Accords. 
Some delegations expressed the view that cooperation on the international lunar research station initiated by China and the Russian Federation was advancing and provided new opportunities for space exploration for all interested partners. 
The view was expressed that the 73rd International Astronautical Congress, that was held in Paris in September 2022 on the theme “Space for all”, was a benchmark event and attracted an unprecedented level of attendance. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the African Union Commission’s decision to make space activities a flagship project of Agenda 2063 was recognition of the multitude of opportunities that space offered which would enable the Afr ican continent to realize its social and commercial potential, and in that connection, the agreement on the African Space Agency, hosted by Egypt, was noted. 
The view was expressed that strengthening space cooperation among the countries in Latin America and the Caribbean should be supported and that the Latin American and Caribbean Space Agency was a regional body that sought to contribute to and strengthen the sustainable development of the space activities environment in the region for the benefit of the population of Latin America and the Caribbean. 
Some delegations expressed the view that all space activities, including those involving megaconstellations and their related operations, should fully respect the Charter of the United Nations and its principles, including the principle of non-intervention, and international law. The delegations expressing that view were also of the view that if megaconstellations or any company providing satellite -based Internet services wished to operate within a country, these operations must respect the legal requirements and landing rights of that country and the relevant legal instruments of ITU. 
The view was expressed that States that had megaconstellations under their jurisdiction or control bore international responsibility under international space law and they should fully respect the national law of each country they were operating in. 
Some delegations reiterated their opposition to the establishment of a new regional centre for space science and technology education in the Eurasian region, affiliated to the United Nations, hosted by the Roscosmos Corporate Academy, as proposed by the Government of the Russian Federation. Those delegations were also of the view that although the General Assembly, in its resolution 76/76, had noted with satisfaction the progress in the establishment of the regional centre, in the light 23-11905 5 A/78/20 of recent developments, they were not in a position to accept the affiliation of that regional centre to the United Nations. 
The view was expressed that the Committee, at its sixty-fourth session, had noted that the evaluation mission on the proposed establishment of the regional centre for space science and technology education had resulted in the recommendation to accept the offer of the Russian Federation to establish the regional centre and that the Committee had welcomed the progress on the establishment of the regional centre, and thus no additional agreement was required by the Committee. The delegation expressing that view also informed the Committee that the centre was already operational and providing services. Over 100 applicants from various countries in the region had been successfully accepted by the centre as students. 
Some delegations expressed the view that there was serious concern over spac e activities conducted in violation of the existing Security Council resolutions. 
Some delegations expressed serious concern about the politicization of the work of the Committee, especially by bringing to its attention highly politicized issues that were beyond the mandate of the work of the Committee. 
The Committee welcomed the publication by the Office for Outer Space Affairs of its Annual Report 2022, which contained a comprehensive account of the Office’s activities, programmes and achievements over the course of 2
The Committee noted with appreciation the exhibitions presented in the rotunda of the Vienna International Centre in conjunction with its sixty -sixth session: “Sound of Earth’s magnetic field: an audio installation using sonification fo r accessibility in space sciences”, organized by Denmark; “Canary Islands: astronomy for Europe”, organized by Spain; “‘Our fragile space: protecting the near-space environment’ by the photographer Max Alexander”, organized in partnership with the United K ingdom Space Agency, ESA, Lloyds and the University of Warwick; and “A giant leap: from Armstrong to Artemis”, organized by the United States. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation for the organization of the following events during the session: (a) “Space resources: chances and legal challenges”, co-organized by the European Centre for Space Law National Point of Contact for Space Law Austria at the University of Vienna and the Austrian Federal Ministry for Climate Action, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology; (b) “Strengthening cooperation in outer space, moving towards a shared future”, organized by the delegation of China to the Committee; (c) “KiboCUBE: expanding possibilities for emerging space countries”, co-organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) and supported by the Permanent Mission of Japan; (d) “Benefits of astronomy for society”, organized by Spain and co -sponsored by Bulgaria and Chile; (e) “Enabling multi-State active debris removal and in-orbit servicing missions: perspectives from New Zealand and the United Kingdom”, co -organized by New Zealand and the United Kingdom; (f) “Space for climate action: from observation to action”, co-organized by the delegation of the European Union to the International Organizations in Vienna and the Permanent Mission of Sweden to the United Nations; (g) “Launch of the Space and Global Health Network", organized by Switzerland; (h) “International Charter on Space and Major Disasters”, organized by the United Kingdom Space Agency; 6 23-11905 A/78/20 (i) “Our fragile space: protecting the near-space environment – launch event of the exhibition by Max Alexander”, co-organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs in partnership with the United Kingdom Space Agency, ESA, Lloyd’s and the University of Warwick; (j) “A giant leap: from Armstrong to Artemis” organized by the United States Permanent Mission to the International Organizations in Vienna; (k) “Joint report on contribution to the “Space2030” Agenda: European Space Programme ‘EU Space’ – supporting a world of 8 billion”, co-organized by the Office of Outer Space Affairs and the European Union Agency for the Space Programme; (l) “Space4SDGs: an insight into the Office of Outer Space Affairs Space solutions compendium and the European Space Agency Sustainable Development Goals catalogue”, co-organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and ESA; (m) “The third interregional space policy dialogue between Asia -Pacific and Europe: national approaches to space sustainability and the implementation of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities”, co-organized by the European Space Policy Institute and the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum; (n) “Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and ITU regimes: synergies and best practices”, co-organized by the European Space Policy Institute and SWF; (o) “International lunar coordination: a round table”, co-organized by the Moon Village Association, SWF, Open Lunar Foundation and the Hague Institute for Global Justice; (p) “Introducing the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space briefing book”, organized by SWF; (q) “‘Access to Space for All’ – a path for space technology capacitybuilding”, organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs; (r) “Space4Women: progress and updates”, organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs. F. Adoption of the report of the Committee 
After considering the various items before it, the Committee, at its 817th meeting, on 9 June 2023, adopted its report to the General Assembly containing the recommendations and decisions set out below. Chapter II Recommendations and decisions A. Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes 
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Committee continued its consideration, as a matter of priority, of ways and means of ma intaining outer space for peaceful purposes and its consideration of the broader perspective of space security and associated matters that would be instrumental in ensuring the safe and responsible conduct of space activities, including ways to promote int ernational, regional and interregional cooperation to that end. 
The representatives of Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Kenya, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), Pakistan, the Russian Federation, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic 23-11905 7 A/78/20 of) made statements under agenda item 
A statement was also made by the observer for For All Moonkind. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by other member States. 
The Committee agreed that through its work in the scientific, technical and legal fields, as well as through the promotion of international dialogue and the exchange of information on various topics relating to the exploration and use of outer space, it ha d a fundamental role to play in ensuring that outer space was maintained for peaceful purposes. 
Some delegations expressed the view that in order to ensure the sustainable and peaceful use of outer space, it was crucial that outer space activities be carr ied out in accordance with international law, rules, regulations and norms, including the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee and the Guidelines for the Long -term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee ( A/74/20, annex II). 
Some delegations expressed the view that transparency and confidence-building measures were essential to ensuring the peaceful uses of outer space. 
The view was expressed that space situational awareness capabilities were essential to ensure safe and sustainable space operations given that the number of space objects continued to grow and it was crucial to regularly track and monitor activities in space in order to mitigate associated risks. 
Some delegations welcomed the adoption by the Disarmament Commission in April 2023 of the recommendations to promote the practical implementation of transparency and confidence-building measures in outer space activities with the goal of preventing an arms race in outer space, in accordance with the recommendations set out in the report of the Group of Governmental Experts on Transparency and Confidence-Building Measures in Outer Space Activities (A/68/189). 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee’s work in a wide range of fields ensured the peaceful use of outer space and was a key factor in preventing the risk of an arms race and the militarization of outer space and that the Committee’s work therefore complemented and supported other forums for preventing an arms race in outer space. 
Some delegations reaffirmed that it would be more appropriate to discuss issues associated with the prevention of an arms race in outer space, the use of outer space for national security activities and related matters in forums whose mandates focused on those issues, such as the Conference on Disarmament, the Disarmament Commission and the First Committee of the General Assembly. 
Some delegations expressed the view that adherence during peacetime to a common set of voluntary, non-legally binding measures could increase stability and predictability, enable crisis management, enhance operational safety and reduce the risks of misperception and miscalculation, thus contributing to the prevention of misconduct. The delegations expressing that view were also of the view that States would succeed in reaching agreement during the work of the open-ended working group on reducing space threats through norms, rules and principles of responsible behaviours, established pursuant to General Assembly resolution 76/
Some delegations expressed the view that the development of instruments concerning the long-term sustainability of outer space activities should be distinct from, but complementary to, the work being carried out on space -related threats in other United Nations forums. 
The view was expressed that the mandate of the open-ended working group largely overlapped with the areas of competence of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, in particular, the Working Group on the Long -term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, and that the work of the open-ended working group continued to be carried out without due regard to the experience and expertise of the Committee. 8 23-11905 A/78/20 
Some delegations expressed the view that the threat of militarization of outer space underscored the importance of international dialogue and negotiation aimed at creating legally binding norms for transparency and confidence-building. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the intentional de struction of space objects, generating large amounts of space debris, increased the risk of collisions of on-orbit space objects and constituted irresponsible behaviour that would undermine the sustainable and stable use of outer space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the recent announcement by several member States of their commitment not to conduct destructive direct -ascent anti-satellite missile testing was a positive step towards formulating norms of responsible behaviour in outer space, in line with General Assembly resolution 77/41, which called on States to commit not to conduct destructive direct-ascent anti-satellite missile tests. 
The view was expressed that it was doubtful that such announcements were effective in maintaining space for peaceful purposes. The same delegation expressed the view that the proposed initiative to make a political commitment on no first placement of weapons in outer space should also be taken into consideration. 
Some delegations reiterated that more consideration should be given to the draft treaty on the prevention of the placement of weapons in outer space and of the threat or use of force against space objects, as that treaty paved the way for ensuring the use of outer space for peaceful purposes. 
The view was expressed that in line with the requirement set out in the outer space treaty, the Committee should focus on the challenges posed by the development of commercial space flight, ensure that the space activities of non-governmental entities were consistent with the use of outer space for peaceful purposes, and enhance transparency at the international level. The delegation expressing th at view was also of the view that it was also necessary to attach importance to the safety of outer space activities and seek solutions to the safety risks posed by megaconstellations. 
The view was expressed that using civil space systems, including commercial ones, for purposes that were not declared at the time they were put into orbit, including for interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign States and participating in armed conflicts, was an issue of growing concern. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that a joint panel discussion of t he Disarmament and International Security Committee (First Committee) and the Special Political and Decolonization Committee (Fourth Committee) of the General Assembly on possible challenges to space security and sustainability, had been held in New York on 27 October 2022 with the support of the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the Office for Disarmament Affairs, and that such joint panel discussions should continue to be organized to discuss cross-cutting issues. 
The Committee noted that during the Leadership Development Forum of APSCO, held on 13 and 14 November 2022 in Islamabad, Pakistan, the representatives of the APSCO member States had released a joint statement in which they emphasized that the Committee could act as a central body for establishi ng space laws and regulations. 
The Committee noted that the twenty-eighth session of the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum, on the theme “Bridging space innovations opportunities for a sustainable and prosperous future”, had been held from 15 to 18 November 2022 in Viet Nam. 
The Committee recommended that, at its sixty-seventh session, in 2024, consideration of the item on ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes should be continued. 23-11905 9 A/78/20 B. Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixtieth session 
The Committee took note with appreciation of the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixtieth session (A/AC.105/1279), which contained the results of its deliberations on the items considered by the Subcommittee in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The Committee expressed its appreciation to Juan Francisco Facetti (Paraguay) for his able leadership as Chair during the sixtieth session of the Subcommittee. 
The representatives of Australia, Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, France, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Pakistan, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. The representative of Pakistan made a statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and the representative of Ghana made a statement on behalf of the Group of African States. The observer for the Square Kilometre Array Observatory also made a statement. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by other member States. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Introduction to the KASI infrastructure and its activities”, by the representative of the Republic of Korea; (b) “Summary of the first Access to Space for All expert meeting”, by the representative of the Office for Outer Space Affairs. 
United Nations Programme on Space Applications (a) Activities of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications 
The Committee had before it a conference room paper containing the report on the first expert meeting of the Access to Space for All initiative (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.5). 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the activities of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 47–59). 
The Committee noted that the priority areas of the Programme were environmental monitoring, natural resource management, satellite communications, disaster risk reduction, the use of global navigation satellite systems (GNSS), the Basic Space Science Initiative, climate change, the Basic Space Technology Initiative, the Human Space Technology Initiative, and biodiversity and ecosystems. 
The Committee took note of the activities of the Programme carried out in 2022 and those planned for 2023, as presented in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 57 and 58). 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Office for Outer Space Affairs for the manner in which the activities of the Programme had been implemented with the limited funds available, in particular in 2
The Committee also expressed its appreciation to the Governments and intergovernmental and non -governmental organizations that had sponsored the activities. The Committee noted with satisfaction that further progress was being made in the implementation of the activities of the Programme for 2
The Committee expressed its concern that the financial resources avail able to the United Nations Programme on Space Applications remained limited and emphasized that it was important that the Office be equipped with the necessary resources, including sufficient funding, to help ensure that the greatest number of countries had access to the benefits of space science and technology and its 10 23-11905 A/78/20 applications in line with the spirit of the Outer Space Treaty as well as the “Space2030” Agenda. 
The Committee noted that the United Nations Programme on Space Applications continued to implement the Access to Space for All initiative, which was focused on developing the capacity of Member States to access the benefits of space. In that regard, the Committee noted the announcement of the extension to the end of December 2030 of the successful KiboCUBE programme, which supported the development of technologies needed to send hardware into space. The Committee also noted the ongoing activities of the Access to Space for All initiative conducted with a number of partners, which offered selected entities opportunities to gain access to unique ground-based and orbital facilities for experiments in microgravity and hypergravity, and access to space data and training on the use of such data, as well as the use of astronomical data. 
The Committee requested the Office for Outer Space Affairs to continue to work with the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on defining the priorities of the Programme. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the United Nations Programme on Space Applications had continued to emphasize, promote and foster cooperation with Member States at the regional and global levels to support the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations. 
The Committee noted that the Office for Outer Space Affairs continued to closely collaborate with the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, namely the African Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education – in English Language, the African Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology – in French Language; the Centre for Space Science and Technology Education in Asia and the Pacific, the Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Latin America and the Caribbean, the Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Western Asia and the Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education in Asia and the Pacific (China). In that connection, the Committee noted with appreciation that the host countries of the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, were providing significant financial and in-kind support to the centres. (b) International Satellite System for Search and Rescue 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the International Satellite System for Search and Rescue (COSPAS-SARSAT), which provided worldwide coverage of emergency beacons, carried on vessels and aircraft and by individual users around the world, currently had 45 member States, and two organizations were formally associated with it. The Committee also noted that, since the start of the programme, COSPAS-SARSAT had supported more than 50,000 rescues worldwide. 
Space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 65–79, and annex I). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions and recommendations of the Subcommittee on the item (A/AC.105/1279, para. 79). 
The Committee took note of the report of the Working Group of the Whole of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, reconvened under the chairmanship of Prakash Chauhan (India) as Chair (A/AC.105/1279, annex I). 
Some delegations expressed the view that space science and technology and their applications were essential to effectively addressing current and future challenges to social and economic development and sustainability, such as natural 23-11905 11 A/78/20 disasters, food security, climate change and natural resource security, and noted that space activities were crucial to realizing the Sustainable Development Goals and the “Space2030” Agenda, in particular as part of efforts to support sustainable economic growth, improve the quality of life and manage the global environment. The delegations expressing that view were also of the view that it was important to ensure that the Office was equipped with the necessary resources, includin g sufficient funding, to assist a greater number of countries in gaining access to the benefits of space science and technology and their applications. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Copernicus programme offers valuable contributions in providing Earth observation data for all, on a full, free and open basis, including, in particular, for emerging space nations. 
The Committee welcomed the inclusion and recognition of space as a driver of sustainable development in the ministerial declaration of the high-level political forum on sustainable development, which was convened, under the auspices of the Economic and Social Council, in July 2
Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 80–88). 
The Committee noted that international and regional initiatives of States used remote sensing data to support sustainable socioeconomic development, in particular for the benefit of developing countries. 
In the course of the discussions, delegations reviewed national, bilateral, regional and international programmes on remote sensing, in particular in the following areas: monitoring the broader impacts of climate change; land use and land cover monitoring; natural resource management; monitoring of forests and wildfires; detection of illegal fishing; monitoring of oil pipelines and the illegal tapping of oil pipelines; monitoring of protected marine areas and marine species; environmental monitoring; monitoring of the atmosphere, greenhouse gases and air pollution; urban planning; disaster management support; telehealth and epidemiology; watershed monitoring and development planning; irrigation infrastructure assessment; agriculture, horticulture and crop production forecasting; monitoring of desertification; snow and glacier monitoring; and monitorin g of oceans, glacial lakes and other water bodies. 
Space debris 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space debris, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee ( A/AC.105/1279, paras. 89–114). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the endorsement by the General Assembly, in its resolution 62/217, of the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space had proved vital in controlling the space debris problem for the safety of future space missions. 
The Committee also noted with satisfaction that many States and international intergovernmental organizations were implementing space debris mitigation measures consistent with the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines and the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee (A/74/20, annex II) and/or the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Inter-Agency Space Debris Coordination Committee (IADC), and that a number of States had harmonized their national space debris mitigation standards with those guidelines. 12 23-11905 A/78/20 
In addition, the Committee noted that some States were using the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines and the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee, the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of IADC and ISO standards as reference points in their regulatory frameworks for national space activities. 
The Committee also noted that, in the area of space debris, some States were cooperating within the European Union’s Space Surveillance and Tracking partnership, integrating data from on-ground sensors in order to monitor space debris and deliver public services in the areas of collision avoidance, re -entry and fragmentation analysis. 
The Committee agreed that Member States and international organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee should continue to be invited to provide reports on research on space debris, the safety of space objects with nuclear power sources on board, problems relating to the collision of such space objects with space debris and the ways in which debris mitigation guidelines were being implemented. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that States had undertaken a number of actions to mitigate space debris, such as improving the design of launch vehicles, engines and spacecraft and developing special software and passivation, life extension, end-of-life operations and disposal techniques. 
The Committee noted the development and application of new technologies and ongoing research related to space debris mitigation; protecting space systems from space debris; limiting the creation of additional space debris; re -entry and collision avoidance techniques; measuring, characterizing, continuous monitoring and modelling of space debris; prediction, early warning and notification of space debris re-entry and collision; and space debris orbit evolution and fragmentation. 
Some delegations expressed concerns about the proliferation of space debris and the potential for unintended harm. Entities conducting space activities were therefore encouraged to address concerns and challenges caused by megaconstellations in lower Earth orbit, including those related to collision risks and the sustainable use of orbits and frequencies, through the implementation of the voluntary measures contained in the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines and the Guidelines for the Long -term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the major contributors to space debris must assume their historical responsibility for the mitigation and removal of that debris, and, in that context, stressed the importance of not causing new space actors to be overburdened by the consequences of the historical activities of established space actors. 
The view was expressed that research on and the development of technologies related to debris mitigation and remediation were important, as was training on related tools. The same delegation also expressed the view that research on active debris removal was being carried out in cooperation with industry, and that guidelines for on-orbit servicing had been developed. 
Space-system-based disaster management support 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space-system-based disaster management support, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 115–128). 
The Committee noted the importance of space-based information for disaster management and emergency response, utilizing remote sensing data and Earth observation satellites for developing multi-hazard early warning systems and disaster impact analysis for all types of natural disasters, including for continued monitoring of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. 23-11905 13 A/78/20 
The Committee welcomed the activities organized by the United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response (UN-SPIDER), which supported the development of the capacity to use all types of space-based information in support of the full disaster management cycle. In that regard, the Committee took note of the UN-SPIDER activities and capacitystrengthening efforts, including the generation of tailored space-based information for countries in need in 2022 (see A/AC.105/1270), which were carried out with the continued support of its network of partners, as well as the benefits of the UN -SPIDER knowledge portal (www.un-spider.org), a web-based platform for information, communication and process support that fostered the exchange of information, the sharing of experiences, capacity-building and technical advisory support and services. 
Some delegations expressed the view that in order to strengthen disaster preparedness and emergency response at the national level, the Office for Outer Space Affairs should increase the capacity-building activities of UN-SPIDER by offering more technical advisory missions and training progr ammes, in particular to developing countries. 
The Committee also noted the support that States had been providing to the Working Group on Disasters of CEOS and the international COSPAS -SARSAT programme. 
The Committee noted with appreciation the financial and staff resource contributions made by China, France and Germany to UN -SPIDER and the in-kind contributions, including the provision of experts, made by some States members of the Committee and by the regional support offices in 2022 in support of the act ivities conducted by the Office for Outer Space Affairs through UN-SPIDER, as well as their efforts to share experience with other interested countries. In that regard, the Committee encouraged other member States and permanent observers to provide to the activities and programmes of the Office, including UN-SPIDER, all necessary support on a voluntary basis, including increased financial support, to enable it to better respond to Member States’ requests for assistance and to fully carry out its workplan in the coming years. 
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on recent developments in global navigation satellite systems, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 129–151). 
The Committee had before it the note by the Secretariat on the sixteenth meeting of the International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (A/AC.105/1276). 
The Committee noted the work of International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (ICG) aimed at creating an interopera ble, multi-GNSS space service volume, which would enable improved navigation for space operations beyond geostationary Earth orbit and that GNSS services were expected to be employed in cislunar space. 
The Committee noted that the sixteenth meeting of ICG and the twenty-sixth meeting of the Providers’ Forum, organized and hosted by the United Arab Emirates Space Agency on behalf of the Government of the United Arab Emirates, were held in Abu Dhabi from 9 to 14 October 2022 (see A/AC.105/1276) and that the seventeenth meeting of ICG would be hosted by the European Union and be held in Madrid from 15 to 20 October 2
The Committee noted the efforts by the Office for Outer Space Affairs in promoting the use of GNSS through its capacity-building and information dissemination initiatives, as well as the role of the Office as the executive secretariat of ICG in coordinating the annual meetings of ICG, its Providers’ Forum and the ICG working groups. 14 23-11905 A/78/20 
Space weather 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space weather, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee ( A/AC.105/1279, paras. 152–164). 
The Committee had before it the report on the United Nations/Azerbaijan workshop on the International Space Weather Initiative: the Sun, Space Weather and Geosphere (A/AC.105/1275). 
The Committee noted that space weather, affected by solar variability, was an international concern, owing to its potential threat to space systems, human space flight, ground- and space-based infrastructure and aviation activity, upon which society increasingly relied. As such, it needed to be addressed in a global manner, through international cooperation and coordination, in order to be able to pre dict potentially severe space weather events and mitigate their impact in order to guarantee safety and sustainability of outer space activities. 
The Committee noted a number of national and international activities undertaken in the fields of research, training and education to improve the scientific and technical understanding of the adverse effects of space weather and thus strengthen global resilience to its threat, with the goal of facilitating the implementation of the space weather-related guidelines B.6 and B.7 of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Expert Group on Space Weather for its work and for its final report (A/AC.105/C.1/122) and the recommendations contained therein. 
Near-Earth objects 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on near-Earth objects, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 165–183). 
The Committee noted with appreciation the work done by the International Asteroid Warning Network (IAWN) and the Space Mission Planning Advisory Group (SMPAG) to share information with regard to discovering, monitoring and physically characterizing potentially hazardous near-Earth objects in order to ensure that all nations, in particular developing countries with limited capac ity to predict and mitigate the impact of a near-Earth object, were aware of the potential hazard of impact by an asteroid. 
The Committee noted the importance of national efforts and action plans aimed at developing capabilities in the discovery, observation, early warning and mitigation of potentially hazardous near-Earth objects that contributed to strengthening international collaboration and information-sharing, and in that regard highlighted the importance of contributing to the work of IAWN and SMPAG . 
The Committee noted that, should a credible threat of impact be discovered by the Network, available information would be provided by IAWN and disseminated to all Member States through the Office for Outer Space Affairs. 
The Committee took note of the first planetary defence technology demonstration mission that altered an asteroid’s orbit, the NASA Double Asteroid Redirection Test (DART). In that regard, the Committee noted that the mission had involved international collaboration, including the contrib ution made by the Italian Space Agency (ASI) through its LICIACube, and was completed with the support of a worldwide observation campaign. It also noted that as a follow -up, the Hera mission of ESA, was planned in 2026, with a view to providing a valuable assessment of the deflection technique test of the DART mission. 
The Committee noted that further information on the meetings of IAWN and SMPAG, to which the Office for Outer Space Affairs served as the permanent 23-11905 15 A/78/20 secretariat, had been made available on their websites (http://iawn.net and http://smpag.net). 
The Committee noted that the eighth IAA Planetary Defense Conference was held from 2 to 7 April 2023 in Vienna, at the Austrian Academy of Sciences and at the Vienna International Centre. The Conference had been hosted by the Office for Outer Space Affairs, in cooperation with ESA and the Commission for Geosciences of the Austrian Academy of Sciences. 
The Committee also noted that a revised publication entitled “Near-Earth Objects and Planetary Defence” (ST/SPACE/73) containing latest information on that subject matter had been made available by the Office for Outer Space Affairs, with the support of ESA, IAWN and SMPAG. 
Long-term sustainability of outer space activities 
The Committee took note of the discussion by the Subcommittee under t he item on the long-term sustainability of outer space activities as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 184–208) and endorsed the decisions of the Subcommittee and of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities, reconvened under the chairmanship of Umamaheswaran R. (India) (A/AC.105/1279, para. 208, and annex II, paras. 7–21). 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Note by the Secretariat containing information and views for consideration by the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities (CANEUS International, Hague Institute for Global Justice and National Space Society) (A/AC.105/C.1/L.409/Add.5); (b) Conference room paper submitted by the Chair of the Working Group entitled “Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities: ideas for the workshop in 2024” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.4); (c) Conference room paper submitted by Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, New Zealand, United Kingdom and United States entitled “A practical and inclusive approach to identifying and studying challenges and considering possible new guidelines” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.15/Rev.1); (d) Non-paper submitted by the Chair of the Working Group entitled “Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities: possible report language”. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities had met both formally, with the benefit of interpretation services, and informally during the present session. 
The Committee was informed of a number of national, regional and international scientific, technical, legal and policy measures and initiatives that had been, or were currently being undertaken, to implement the Guidelines for the Long -term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee ( A/74/20, annex II). 
The Committee recalled the importance of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities structuring its work, giving equal importance and an equitable amount of time to each of the elements of its terms of reference (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix, paras. 4, 6 and 13). 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Working Group had begun a robust dialogue among States regarding their experiences with implementation of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the membership of Working Group included representatives from a diverse array of States, that there was power in that diversity, and that all States members were encouraged to actively participate and share their views to advance the discussions. The delegations expressing that view 16 23-11905 A/78/20 were also of the view that it was through that type of dialogue, and the sharing of knowledge and experiences, that Working Group members could identify shared challenges and learn about possible solutions. 
Some delegations expressed view that that the open-source information repository that the Office for Outer Space Affairs had been requested to develop and host (see A/AC.105/1279, annex II, paras. 17–21) would be an important tool to build transparency, confidence and capacity. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important to ensure that the consideration of possible areas for new guidelines did not disrupt the bal anced dialogue on all three elements of the Working Group’s method of work and the consensus-based workplan. 
The view was expressed that while the adoption of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities in 2019 was an important step, the adopted Guidelines ignored significant issues related to the safety of space operations. The delegation expressing this view referred to conference room paper A/AC.105/2022/CRP.11, the content of which had first been made available in June 2022, and the views contained therein, which could provide a thematic basis for new draft guidelines. 
The view was expressed that it was hoped that exchanges in the Working Group would help to identify emerging challenges and possible missing elements in th e Guidelines and to form a consensus on the topics to be studied in more detail through a phased, step-by-step approach. 
The view was expressed that as the work of the Working Group became progressively more significant and specialized, the inputs on capac ity-building, science, technology and innovation should be addressed so that the Working Group would be better positioned to understand how all countries, irrespective of their state of development, were using their resources in innovative ways to leverage their abilities and talents and contribute to the debate on space sustainability. 
The view was expressed that the long-term sustainability of outer space activities should be retained as a regular item on the agenda of the Subcommittee to ensure that the discussion of the technical aspects, on which progress had been made within the Working Group, received greater attention from all delegations. 
The view was expressed that States should pay attention to a proposal that had the potential to completely transform the treaty-based regime on outer space: that of using the voluntary Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities to develop a new binding space treaty on the long-term sustainability of outer space activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it would be premature to develop a new binding space treaty based on the Guidelines for the Long -term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities, that legal issues related to implementation of the Guidelines could be raised under existing agenda items of the Legal Subcommittee and that any further consideration of the proposal should be done in the Legal Subcommittee. 
The view was expressed that the topic of long-term sustainability of outer space activities had both scientific and legal aspects and that there should be related interaction and coordination between the two subcommittees. 
The Committee recalled that, in accordance with the Working Group’s multi -year workplan (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix), information and views on the topics in paragraphs 4 and 6 of the Working Group’s terms of reference, methods of work and workplan were to continue to be submitted. Inputs of up to three pages receiv ed by the secretariat by 20 October 2023 would be made available in the six official languages of the United Nations before the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2
-11905 17 A/78/20 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had requested that the Chair of the Working Group draw on the inputs received since the start of the work of the Working Group to compile concise summaries of Member States’ implementation experiences, opportunities for capacity-building for implementation of the Guidelines, and overarching themes on challenges to the long-term sustainability of outer space activities. Those summaries would be made available in the six official languages of the United Nations for consideration at the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2
They were to be distinct from the report of the workshop and the draft report, which were to be produced following the session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee in 2
The Committee recalled that the workshop, planned for 2024, would be aimed at raising awareness of the long-term sustainability of outer space activities and supporting capacity-building. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed that the following three topics would form the basis of the agenda of the workshop to take place in 2024: (a) Regulatory and policy aspects (possible subtopics of specific presentations could include, inter alia, licensing and supervision, space object registration, the role of guidelines in enhancing the utilization of space and the perspectives of developing countries and Indigenous/tribal communities); (b) Safety of space operations (possible subtopics of specific presentations could include, inter alia, space situational awareness, large const ellations and the sustainability and resilience of space systems); (c) Scientific and technical research (possible subtopics of specific presentations could include, inter alia, space debris monitoring, mitigation and remediation, sustainable human presence in outer space and the role of academic and higher education institutions). 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed that United Nations entities would also be invited to provide written contributions to support the workshop. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed that speakers/panellists for the workshop would need to be formally accredited to the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee as part of a delegation. 
Future role and method of work of the Committee 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the future role and method of work of the Committee, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 209–232). 
The Committee recalled its decision, made at its sixty-second session, to introduce a regular item entitled “Future role and method of work of the Committee” on the agendas of both subcommittees to allow for discussion of cross-cutting issues (A/74/20, para. 321 (h)). 
Use of nuclear power sources in outer space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the use of nuclear power sources in outer space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 246–263). 
The Committee had before it the final report on the implementation of the Safety Framework for Nuclear Power Source Applications in Outer Space and recommendations for potential enhancements of the technical content and scope of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, prepared by the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space (A/AC.105/C.1/124). The Committee endorsed the final report of the Working Group. 18 23-11905 A/78/20 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations of the Subcommittee and the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, reconvened under the chairmanship of Sam A. Harbison (United Kingdom) for a new five -year workplan of the Working Group, including the recommendation that the Working Group could hold intersessional meetings, facilitated by the secretariat, to further the objectives of the workplan (A/AC.105/1279, annex III, paras. 8 and 9). 
The Committee endorsed the nomination of Leopold Summerer (Austria) for the position of incoming Chair of the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space. 
The Committee expressed its sincere appreciation to Sam A. Harbison (United Kingdom), who concluded his tenure as the Chair of the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, for his invaluable commitment to the work of the Working Group over more than 20 years. 
The view was expressed that while recognizing the need to use nuclear power sources in outer space to make interplanetary missions viable, the proliferation of such power sources should be restricted as their use could pose a potential danger to human life and the environment. The delegation expressing that view was also of the view that the current Safety Framework for Nuclear Power Source Applications in Outer Space was insufficient and that States should be encouraged to develop additional legally binding instruments that regulated in more detail the use of nuclear power sources in outer space, taking into account that any activity carried out in outer space must be governed by the principles of the protection of human life and the maintenance of peace. 
Space and global health 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space and global health, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 233–245). 
The Committee welcomed the adoption of General Assembly resolution 77/120, entitled “Space and global health”, and the establishment of the Space and Global Health Platform and the Space and Global Health Network. 
The Committee noted the broad array of activities relevant to space and global health and acknowledged the contribution of space science, space technology and space applications to the prevention and control of diseases, the promotion of human health and welfare, the addressing of global health issues, the advancement of medical research, the advancement of health practices and the provision of health-care services to individuals and communities, including in rural areas with limited access to health care. 
The Committee noted the vital role of space science, space technology and space applications in addressing the COVID-19 pandemic, and their critical role in support of contact tracing, the identification of affected areas, modelling the spread of the disease and monitoring its transmission, connectivity for remote working, telehealth and communication, as well as methods of coping with social isolation. 
The Committee took note of the launch of the Space and Global Health Network and the signing of the statement of intent by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the University of Geneva at a side event held on 2 June 2023 organized by the delegation of Switzerland, and noted that Member States had been invited to identify experts and institutions and encourage them to participate in the Space and Global Health Network. 23-11905 19 A/78/20 
Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interes ts of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of ITU, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 264–274). 
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit, as a limited natural resource clearly in danger of saturation, needed to be used in a way that ensured that countries had equitable access to those orbits and frequencies, taking into account the special needs of the developing countries and the geographical situation of particular countries. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit should be utilized in a rational, balanced, efficient and equitable manner and that the exploitation of the geostationary orbit without taking those principles into consideration would risk saturation. 
The view was expressed that the geostationary orbit should be considered a specific area and special part of outer space that required specif ic technical and legal governance. 
General exchange of views on dark and quiet skies for science and society 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item entitled “General exchange of views on dark and quiet skies for science and society”, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 275–295) and in the conference room paper on the protection of dark and quiet skie s for science and society, submitted by Bulgaria, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Peru, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, ESO, IAU and the Square Kilometre Array Observatory (A/AC.105/C.1/2023CRP.18/Rev.1). 
The Committee noted that because an ever-increasing number of stakeholders, including private entities, were launching spacecraft into orbit, concerns had been raised about spacecraft that emitted radio signals and reflected sunlight into astronomical telescopes or crossed their field of view, thereby degrading astronomical observations. Thus, the importance of implementing measures to mitigate factors that could hinder scientific discoveries was highlighted. 
The Committee took note of various national and international efforts to balance the provision of satellite services with astronomical observation activities, including the hosting of events to foster dialogue among stakeholders, the development of regulations and legal frameworks, the establishment of dark sky conservation areas and radio quiet zones, research on technologies to mitigate light pollution and the monitoring of the impact of satellite constellations on astronomy. 
Some delegations expressed the view that dark skies must be preserved and protected as the common cultural and natural heritage of the world. 
Some delegations expressed their support for the establishment of an expert group for a duration of three years and for keeping the agenda item on dark and quiet skies for science and society on the agenda of the Subcommittee for the same perio d. 
Some delegations expressed the view that such an expert group should include interested member States and a balanced representation of private satellite operators 20 23-11905 A/78/20 and the scientific and academic community to evaluate the challenges and the means to address the matters before them in an adequate manner. 
The view was expressed that the agenda item could be beneficial if it were to be reformatted. 
Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the draft provisional agenda for its sixty-first session, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 296–309). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations and decisions on the item made by the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, para. 309). 
The Committee noted that the Secretariat had scheduled the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee to be held from 29 January to 9 February 2
On the basis of the deliberations of the Subcommittee at its sixtieth session, the Committee agreed that the following items should be considered by the Subcommittee at its sixty-first session: 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Election of the Chair. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views and introduction of reports submitted on national activities. 
Space for sustainable development: technology and its applications, including the United Nations Programme on Space Applications. 
Space debris. 
Space-system-based disaster management support. 
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems. 
Space weather. 
Near-Earth objects. 
Long-term sustainability of outer space activities. (Work for 2024 as reflected in the multi-year workplan of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities (A/AC.105/1258, para. 209 and para. 18 of the appendix to annex II)) 
Future role and method of work of the Committee. 
Space and global health. 
Use of nuclear power sources in outer space. (Work for 2024 as reflected in the new five-year workplan of the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space (A/AC.105/1279, annex III, para. 8)) 
Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating t o developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. (Single issue/item for discussion) 23-11905 21 A/78/20 
Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-second session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
Report to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. 
The Committee agreed that the Working Group of the Whole, the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, and the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities should be reconvened at the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
The Committee agreed to merge the items on “United Nations Programme on Space Applications”, “Space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development” and “Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment” in to an item entitled “Space for sustainable development: technology and its applications, including the United Nations Programme on Space Applications”, and, recalling that the item on “Space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development” was an item considered by the Working Group of the Whole, noted that the new merged item would also be considered by the Working Group. 
The Committee requested the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee to consider at its sixty-first session, in 2024, under the item entitled “Future role and method of work of the Committee”, the scope, duration and title of an agenda item related to dark and quiet skies and large constellations, with a view to recommending the item to the Committee, at its sixty-seventh session, for inclusion on the agenda of the Subcommittee. 
The Committee agreed that the full duration of the slot normally allocated for the holding of an industry symposium during the sessions of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee would be allocated, at the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee, in 2024, to the holding of the workshop of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities, upon its request, and as mandated in the Working Group’s multi-year workplan (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix). C. Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty-second session 
The Committee took note with appreciation of the report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty-second session (A/AC.105/1285), which contained the results of its deliberations on the items considered by the Subcommittee in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The Committee expressed its appreciation to Nomfuneko Majaja (South Africa) for her able leadership as Chair during the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee. 
The representatives of Australia, Belgium, Canada, Chile, China, Germany, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. Statements were also made by the representative of Pakistan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. The observer for the Square Kilometre Array Observatory also made a statement. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the agenda item were also made by other member States. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Space Law for New Space Actors project in Chile”, by the representative of Chile; (b) “Progress report on APRSAF initiatives for enhancing space policy and law capacity in the Asia-Pacific region”, by the representative of Japan. 22 23-11905 A/78/20 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item entitled “Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law”, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 40–54). 
The Committee noted that it was important to continue to exchange information among the Subcommittee and intergovernmental and international non-governmental organizations on recent developments in the area of space law. It endorsed the recommendation of the Subcommittee that such organizations should again be invited to report on their activities relating to space law to the Subcommittee at i ts sixty-third session. 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 55–72). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions and recommendations of the Subcommittee and its Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space, which had been reconvened under the chairmanship of Franziska Knur (Germany) (A/AC.105/1285, annex I, paras. 5–17). 
The Committee noted the recommendations on registration practice for space objects forming part of a satellite constellation agreed by the Working Group. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the Working Group would commence an exchange of views, at the sixty-third session of the Subcommittee, on the implementation of article XI of the Outer Space Treaty, in which States agreed to inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations, as well as the public and the international scientific community, to the greatest extent feasible and practicable, of the nature, conduct, locations and results of activities in outer space, including on t he Moon and other celestial bodies. 
The view was expressed that article XI of the Outer Space Treaty was an underutilized provision with great potential for improving transparency and understanding between all nations. The delegation expressing that view also expressed the view that all member States were encouraged to examine the notifications already provided under article XI, recorded on the website of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, in order to familiarize themselves with past use of that mechanism and inspire ideas for its future uses. 
The view was expressed that there was no standardized way to submit information under article XI of the Outer Space Treaty and thus the development of dedicated tools and practices should be considered. 
The Committee welcomed the ongoing work of the Office for Outer Space Affairs to develop an online registration portal to ensure the efficiency of registration submissions. 
Some delegations expressed the view that international law was a key tool to enable space activities to grow in a safe, sustainable and predictable environment. 
The view was expressed that the five United Nations treaties on outer space were the bedrock of any kind of activities in outer space and that the Legal Subcommittee continued to be the central multilateral forum for the further development of international space law. 23-11905 23 A/78/20 
Matters relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space and the character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the agenda item on matters relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space and the character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of ITU, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 73–101). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations of the Subcommittee and its Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space, (A/AC.105/1285, para. 77, and annex II, para. 8). 
Some delegations expressed the view that that the definition and delimitation of outer space continued to be an important topic that should be kept on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee and that more work should be done in order to establish the legal regime applicable to airspace and outer space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the lack of a definition and delimitation of outer space would lead to legal uncertainty and that a boundary between airspace and outer space needed to be clarified in order to reduce the risk of related disputes between States. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit was not to be subject to national appropriation, by means of use, repeated use or occupation, or by any other means, and that its utilization was to be governed by applicable international law. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit needed to be used rationally, efficiently and economically, in conformity with the provision of the international space laws and relevant regulations, so that countries or groups of countries could have equitable access to those orbits and frequencies, taking into account the special needs of the developing countries and the geographical situation of particular countries. 
The view was expressed that it was necessary to develop a juridical re gime that promoted equitable access to orbital slots that gave special attention to those projects pursuing social benefits, while taking into consideration and respecting the role of ITU . 
The view was expressed that inequalities, inefficiencies and bureau cratic congestion in the utilization of the geostationary orbit remained serious challenges that must be addressed by the Committee due to the limited nature of that resource. 
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Legal Subcommittee under the item on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee ( A/AC.105/1285, paras. 102–111). 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Report on the status of the national space legislation of countries of the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum National Space Legislation Initiative, second phase (A/AC.105/L.336); (b) Conference room paper entitled “Membership of the report on the status of the national space legislation of countries of the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum National Space Legislation Initiative” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.17). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendation of the Subcommittee on this agenda item (A/AC.105/1285, para. 111). 24 23-11905 A/78/20 
The Committee noted various activities of member States to review, strengthen, develop or draft national space laws and policies, as well as to reform or establish their governance of national space activities. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the update prepared by the secretariat to the schematic overview of national regulatory frameworks for space activities (A/AC.105/C.2/2023/CRP.28), which enabled States to gain an understanding o f existing national regulatory frameworks, share experiences on national practices and exchange information on national legal frameworks. 
The Committee took note of the regional efforts by the National Space Legislation Initiative study group of the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum. The report covered topics on national implementation of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (A/74/20, annex II), and the involvement of private entities in national legislation and policy making process. 
The Committee agreed that national space legislation should be developed in accordance with international law. 
Some delegations expressed the view that national legislation was important to ensure the safety, sustainability and predictability of outer space activities, in particular, the authorization and supervision of non-governmental entities, owing to the increasing engagement of such entities in space activities. 
The view was expressed that national space legislation should not include regulations associated with the commercialization of outer space. 
Capacity-building in space law 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on capacity-building in space law, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 112–122). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendation of the Subcommittee on this agenda item (A/AC.105/1285, para. 122). 
The Committee agreed that, in order to build the national capacity necessary to ensure that the increasing number of participants in space activities complied with international space law, international cooperation in research, training and education in space law was essential. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that a number of national, regional and international efforts to build capacity in space law were being undertaken by governmental and non-governmental entities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that capacity-building in space law was a fundamental tool that should be enhanced through international cooperation and that greater support was needed from the Office for Outer Space Affairs and member States to foster both North-South and South-South cooperation with a view to facilitating the sharing of knowledge and expertise in the field of space law. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the Space Law for New Space Actors project, including the launch of Accessing Space Treaty Resources Online (ASTRO) database, was aimed at providing support to enhance capacity in developing national space law and policy. 
The Committee commended the Office for Outer Space Affairs for organizing the expert event on the registration of space objects as part of the project entitled “Supporting implementation of treaty obligation relating to the registration of objects launched into outer space”, held Vienna on 29 and 30 May 2
-11905 25 A/78/20 
Future role and method of work of the Committee 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the future role and method of work of the Committee, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 123–156). 
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item entitled “General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources”, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 157–202). 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Conference room paper entitled “Input to the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities on Scope and Topics to be addressed at the International Conference to be held in 2024” containing contributions from: Algeria, Australia, Brazil, Cuba, Ecuador, Russian Federation, Slovakia and Türkiye (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.7); (b) Conference room paper submitted by Belgium and Luxembourg entitled “Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities: joint proposal for an international conference to take place in 2024 in accordance with the five -year workplan and methods of work for the Working Group” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.11); (c) Conference room paper submitted by Luxembourg entitled “Input to the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities on the scope and topics to be addressed at the international conference to be held in 2024” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.18); (d) Conference room paper submitted by Belgium entitled “Input to the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities on the scope and topics to be addressed at the international conference to be held in 2024” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.19); (e) Non-paper submitted to the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities entitled “Joint views of Austria, Belgium, Czechia, Germany, Greece, Luxembourg, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), Norway, Portugal, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland and United Kingdom on the scope and topics of the international space resource conference to be held under the auspices of the United Nations in 2024”. The non-paper was converted into A/AC.105/2023/CRP.26, entitled “Input to the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activiti es on Scope and Topics to be addressed at the International Space Resource Conference to be held in 2024”, on 8 June 2023, after the Working Group had completed its work, including the decision on the adoption of the scope and topics of the international c onference. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities had met both formally, with the benefit of interpretation services, and informally during the present session. 
The Committee noted that the Subcommittee, at its sixty-second session, had reconvened the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities established under the agenda item, with Andrzej Misztal (Poland) as Chair and Steven Freeland (Australia) as Vice-Chair, and had held formal meetings and informal consultations during that session but could not reach consensus on adopting its report. 
Some delegations expressed the view that while the Working Group had not reached consensus on adopting its report at the sixty-second session of the Subcommittee, it was important to recall that the valuable written submissions of numerous States members and observers to the Committee had contributed to the substantively rich and fruitful discussions that had taken place during that session on, among other issues, the scope and type of space resource activities to be considered 26 23-11905 A/78/20 by the Working Group as well as the applicable international framework relevant to those activities, and that those discussions could potentially support the development of an initial set of principles that would improve the governance of activities within the mandate of the Working Group. 
Some delegations welcomed the proposal of Belgium and Luxembourg that the international conference on space resources to be held in 2024 under the mandate of the Working Group be organized with one part taking place in Luxembourg in a hybrid format in order take advantage of the fact that a wide array of stakeholders and experts, including civil society, industry, the private sector, and academia, wo uld be present in Luxembourg during Space Resources Week, and expressed the view that without the substantive input of such external actors the Working Group would not be able to achieve the outcomes of its workplan. The delegations expressing that view also welcomed additional financial and in-kind support that would enable the greater participation and attendance of the widest array of experts and practitioners, in particular those from developing countries. 
Some delegations expressed the view that, in accordance with the mandate and the five-year workplan of the Working Group, the international conference to be held in 2024 should take place in Vienna in conjunction with the sixty -third session of the Legal Subcommittee, in 2024, which would allow the conference to benefit from interpretation services and would facilitate the discussions on a possible regulatory framework relating to the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources. 
Some delegations expressed the view that discussions in the Wo rking Group for the utilization of space resources should retain an equitable, inclusive, constructive, collaborative, consensus-based and multilateral approach, in line with the principles enshrined in the Outer Space Treaty and other relevant United Nati ons treaties, especially the principle of non-appropriation of outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies. 
The view was expressed that the exploitation of space resources and other activities for the exploration of extraterrestrial objects should be consistent with the fundamental principles of international space law set out in the Outer Space Treaty, in particular by ensuring the implementation of the principle that the exploration of outer space was for the benefit and in the interest of all countries. 
The view was expressed that the work of the Working Group should take into account the interests of developing countries, that the utilization of space resources was in the common interest of all mankind and that the space resource activit ies should be undertaken in accordance with the principles of long -term sustainable use and environmental protection of outer space. 
The view was expressed that a binding international legal framework governing space resource activities should be developed in order to ensure that activities were undertaken in a safe and orderly manner and to facilitate the rational management of those resources. 
The view was expressed that, taking into account that the Outer Space Treaty provided that the exploration and use of outer space was the province of all mankind and that the Moon Agreement established that the Moon and its natural resources were the common heritage of humankind, it was crucial that an international regime for governing the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources was developed in the Committee that was consistent with these core principles of international space law, and was a primary output of the Working Group. 
The view was expressed that sharing information on activities for th e exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources was a key element in ensuring the sustainability of space activities and that dedicated tools and practices for enhanced information-sharing were needed in that regard. 
The view was expressed that binding rules and regulations must be put in place regarding the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resource activities in 23-11905 27 A/78/20 order to preserve outer space, the Moon and other celestial bodies from the harmful methods of exploitation promoted by mankind throughout history, as well as the preservation of the terrestrial biosphere from the entry of space material that could negatively affect Earth’s delicate ecosystem. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed that an event would be held in Luxembourg during the Space Resources Week entitled “Expert meeting collecting preliminary inputs for consideration at the international conference in Vienna in 2024”, which would be co-hosted by Belgium and Luxembourg and organized in cooperation with the United Nations. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed that there would be one single report, to be finalized after the international conference to be held in Vienna, which would include the output of the expert meeting to be held in Luxembourg. The Committee also noted that the Working Group had agreed that the presenters of the expert meeting would be nominated by their respective national delegations and that the list of speakers would be, through close consultations between the Chair and Vice-Chair of the Working Group and States members of the Committee, prepared and finalized. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed that the international conference would be conducted in an inclusive and transparent manner, within the scope and on the basis of the following topics: (a) Implications of the legal framework for space resource activities; (b) The role of information-sharing in supporting space resource activities; (c) The scope of future space resource activities; (d) Environmental and socioeconomic aspects of space resource activities; (e) International cooperation in scientific research and technological development for space resource activities. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed that the date of the expert meeting would be communicated through the Office for Outer Space Affairs to member States well in advance. The availability of interpretation in the six official languages of the United Nations and the financial support to cove r the travel costs of participants from developing countries would be subject to additional funding. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group had agreed, on an exceptional basis, to the organization of an event, under the auspices of a working group, ou tside the established headquarters, to be held in Luxembourg, that it would not constitute a precedent and that the host country would seek to conclude an agreement to ensure the participation of all member States. 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Legal Subcommittee under the item on the general exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, as reflected in the report of the Legal Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 203–229). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions of the Subcommittee as reflected in its report (A/AC.105/1285, para. 211). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the endorsement by the General Assembly, in its resolution 62/217, of the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee had been a crucial step in providing guidance on ways to mitigate the problem of space debris, and urged all States Members of the United Nations to consider voluntary implementation of the Guidelines. 28 23-11905 A/78/20 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that some States had taken measures to implement internationally recognized guidelines and standards relating to space debris, including the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee and the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee, through relevant provisions in their national legislation. 
The Committee noted that the compendium of space debris mitigation standards adopted by States and international organizations was being continuously updated. 
Some delegations encouraged launching States to provide advanced, proper, prompt and adequate notification to other States, in particular developing countries, located in the drop zones of falling space debris, as applicable, to ensure that they were sufficiently prepared to mitigate and respond to su ch incidents. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important to strengthen the capacities of developing countries in detecting and responding to falling space debris. 
The view was expressed that the growing number of space activities made it necessary to have a robust system of international governance and that all delegations were urged to consider moving towards a global legal commitment to avoiding space debris and towards comprehensive, multilateral space traffic management. 
The view was expressed that the advancement of science and technology made necessary the revision, update and modification of the United Nations treaties relative to outer space and, moreover, the creation of new binding instruments that regulated space debris reduction measures. 
The view was expressed that the exchange of information and opinions on legal mechanisms relevant to space debris and the adoption of measures aiming at its reduction were increasingly relevant. 
The view was expressed that the current regime of international space law provided basic guidance for issues related to safety in outer space such as space debris mitigation and space traffic management. The delegation expressing that view was also of the view that the Committee and its Legal Subcommittee should strengthen their roles in information-sharing and international cooperation on relevant issues to ensure the long-term sustainability of and freedom of access to outer space. 
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Legal Subcommittee under the item on the general exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 230–246). 
The Committee took note of the compendium on mechanisms adopted by States and international organizations in relation to non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space, which the Office for Outer Space Affairs had made available on a dedicated web page, and invited States members of the Committee and international intergovernmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee to continue to submit responses to the secretariat for their inclusion in the compendium. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the importance of the development of non-legally binding United Nations instruments that complemented and supported the existing United Nations treaties on outer space were responsive to new developments in space activities and contributed to further enhancing the safety, security and sustainability of outer space activities. 
The view was expressed that while it was important to further develop non-legally binding United Nations instruments, it was equally important to develop legally binding international treaties and agreements in a number of areas of space activities in order to keep pace with their rapid development and the safety, security 23-11905 29 A/78/20 and sustainability of outer space, and that that immense responsibility lay with the Legal Subcommittee. 
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item entitled “General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management”, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee ( A/AC.105/1285, paras. 247–267). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendation by the Subcommittee to continue to consider the item. 
The Committee was informed of a number of measures undertaken or envisaged at the national, regional and international levels to improve the safety and sustainability of space flight. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the growing number of space activities, including satellite launches, suborbital launches and human spaceflights, made it increasingly necessary to have a robust international space traffic management system. 
Some delegations expressed the view that space traffic management remained among the key issues recognized by the Council of the European Union and that the European Union approach for operational space traffic management foresaw the possibility of cooperation with international partners, including those outside of Europe. 
The view was expressed that the international community must strive towards a legally binding instrument for space traffic management, negotiated within the framework of the United Nations, to address the need for governance that enabled safe and sustainable space travel while providing a level global playing field. 
The view was expressed that the continued growth of the commercial space industry was recognized and appreciated, as was the importance of seeking and understanding the views of that industry in the development and improvement of related regulatory frameworks. 
The view was expressed that more thorough discussions on the development of a space traffic management system should take place within the Committee and its subcommittees. 
General exchange of views on the application of international law to small-satellite activities 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item entitled “General exchange of views on the application of international law to small-satellite activities”, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 268–281). 
The Committee noted that the item continued to be on the agenda of the Subcommittee and agreed that its retention contributed to addressing and raising awareness of issues relating to the use of small satellites. 
The Committee noted that activities involving small satellites should be carried out in compliance with existing international frameworks, including the United Nations treaties and principles on outer space, the ITU Constitution and Convention and the ITU Radio Regulations, and non-binding instruments such as the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee and the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Affairs of the Committee ( A/74/20, annex II), which should be implemented in national legislation. 
Some delegations expressed the view that, considering the essential role of satellites, regardless of their size, in the socioeconomic development of Member States, the Committee and its Subcommittees should not create an ad hoc legal regime 30 23-11905 A/78/20 or any other mechanisms that might impose limitations on the design, construction, launch and use of satellites. Those delegations were of the view that all international rights and obligations of States with respect to satellites, regardless of their size, were equally relevant for the conduct of space activities using small satellites. 
Some delegations expressed the view that, despite the advantages of using small satellites, there were growing concerns about the impact that small-satellite activities had on astronomical observations conducted by ground-based observatories and on access to space. 
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-third session 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Legal Subcommittee under the item on proposals to the Committee for new items to be considered by the Subcommittee at its sixty-third session, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 282–290). 
On the basis of the deliberations of the Subcommittee at its sixty-second session, the Committee agreed that the following substantive items should be considered by the Subcommittee at its sixty-third session: Regular items 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Election of the Chair. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law. 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space, and ways and means, including capacity-building, to promote their implementation. 
Matters relating to: 
(a) The definition and delimitation of outer space; (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. Future role and method of work of the Committee. Items under workplans 
General exchange of views on potential legal models fo r activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources. (Work for 2024 as reflected in the multi-year workplan of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities (A/AC.105/1260, para. 206, and annex II, appendix)) Single issues/items for discussion 23-11905 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space. 31 A/78/20 
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management. 
General exchange of views on the application of international law to small-satellite activities. New items 
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-fourth session. 
The Committee agreed that the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space and the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities should be reconvened at the sixty -third session of the Subcommittee. 
The Committee agreed to merge the items on “Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space”, “National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space” and “Capacity-building in space law” into an item entitled “Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space, and ways and means, including capacity-building, to promote their implementation”, and noted that, at the sixty-third session of the Subcommittee, the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space would consider, in that regard, if any amendments to its title would be necessary. 
The Committee, recalling the agreement by the Legal Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session in 2019 to provisionally suspend the item on “Review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space” pending the outcome of the work of the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, and noting the Working Group’s new five -year workplan (A/AC.105/1279, annex III, para. 8) agreed to continue to suspend the consideration of the item until the completion of work under the new workplan. 
Some delegations expressed the view that an item on the legal assessment of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee should be included on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee. 
Some delegations expressed the view that an item on the legal assessment of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee should not be considered by the Legal Subcommittee. D. Space and sustainable development 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Space and sustainable development”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of Austria, Belarus, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. The representative of the European Union, in its capacity as permanent observer, also made a statement on behalf of the European Union and its member States. The observers for the Asia-Pacific Space Cooperation Organization, CANEUS International, the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, ESA and SGAC also made statements. During the general exchange of views, representatives of other member States also made statements relating to the item. 
The Committee had before it the following documents: 32 23-11905 A/78/20 (a) Report on the United Nations/Austria World Space Forum on the theme “Sustainability in space for sustainability on Earth” (A/AC.105/1293); (b) Conference room paper submitted by Portugal entitled “United Nations/Portugal Conference on Management and Sustainability of Outer Spa ce Activities” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.21). 
The Committee heard the following presentations under the item: (a) “Contribution to the long-term sustainability of the national space system of Chile”, by the representative of Chile; (b) “Development of the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System”, by the representative of China; (c) “The Luigi Broglio–Malindi Space Center: International cooperation − past, present and future activity”, by the representative of Italy; (d) “Kibo Robot Programming Challenge, KiboCUBE and more – UNOOSA/JAXA education programmes on the ISS ‘Kibo’”, by the representative of Japan; (e) “Satellite-based disaster response and land management”, by the representative of the Republic of Korea; (f) “Applying the EVDT integrated modelling framework to support sustainability on Earth and in Space”, by the representative of the United States; (g) “Maritime lessons for the removal or salvage of orbital debris and the repair or enhancement of working spacecraft”, by the observer for the National Space Society; (h) “TCTB: Facilitating cooperative remediation of massive derelicts”, by the observer for Three Country-Trusted Broker. 
The Committee reiterated its acknowledgement of the significant role of space science and technology and their applications in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in particular the Sustainable Development Goals; in the realization of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030; and in the fulfilment by States parties of their commitments to the Paris Agreement on climate change. 
The Committee noted the value of space technology and applications, as well as that of space-derived data and information, to sustainable development, including in improving the formulation and implementation of policies and programmes of action relating to environmental protection, land and water management, urban and rural development, marine and coastal ecosystems, health care, climate change, disaster risk reduction and emergency response, energy, infrastructure, navigation, seismic monitoring, natural resource management, snow and glaciers, biodiversity, agriculture and food security. 
The Committee took note of the information provided by States on their efforts to integrate cross-sectoral activities at the national, regional and international levels and to incorporate space-derived geospatial data and information into all sustainable development processes and mechanisms. 
The Committee also took note of the information prov ided by States on their actions and programmes aimed at building capacity through education and training, at increasing awareness and understanding in society of the applications of space science and technology for meeting development needs, and at increas ing interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. 
The Committee noted the value of international cooperation and partnerships for the realization of the full potential of space science, technology and applications for sustainable development. 23-11905 33 A/78/20 
The Committee noted that the World Space Forum in 2022 had addressed the theme “Sustainability in space for sustainability on Earth”, and that the World Space Forum in 2023 would highlight the contribution of space solutions to the themes covered by the Summit of the Future. 
The Committee noted that Portugal would host an international conference on the management and sustainability of outer space activities in May 2024, and that two preparatory virtual symposiums would be convened: one in October 202 3, focused on technical issues, and one in March 2024, focused on policy. 
Some delegations welcomed the level of attention that would be devoted to outer space issues at the Summit of the Future and acknowledged the need for the international community to discuss ways and means of reinforcing space governance in the interest of maintaining the sustainability of outer space activities. 
The view was expressed that the Secretary-General’s policy brief entitled “For all humanity – the future of outer space governance” reflected the integral role of the Committee in addressing such governance in the light of the constantly evolving nature of space activities. 
The view was expressed that the ideas reflected in Secretary -General’s policy brief needed further elaboration. The delegation expressing that view was also of the view that it was doubtful that there was enough time to achieve this before the Summit of the Future. 
The view was expressed that, in preparation for the Summit of the Future, the Committee should leverage its unique role in advocating for a seminal multistakeholder event. 
The view was expressed that the results of the Summit of the Future should not be a substitute for progress made in Vienna, and that the integrity of the mandates of the Vienna- and Geneva-based bodies and the preponderant role of States in the preparation of the event should be respected. E. Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of Colombia, Mexico, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States made statements under the item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee noted that the publication entitled “Spinoff 2023”, issued by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States, was available on the NASA website. The Committee expressed its gratitude to NASA for the “Spinoff” publication series, which had been made available to delegations every year since the forty-third session of the Committee, in 2
The Committee took note of innovations in numerous areas, such as agriculture; palm crop calculation; crop monitoring; acreage estimation; agricultural waste management and biomethane fuel production; indoor vertical farming; management of methane derived from agricultural waste; vegan protein food development; pollution and toxic chemical remediation; sustainable water and natural resource management; forestry and wildfire detection; geology; geophysics; ecosystem preservation; water management; lake level monitoring and dam management; the identification and development of arable land; fisheries and mineral deposits; industrial fishing; public and individual health; medicine; cancer diagnosis; radiation monitoring; respiratory and cardiac illnesses caused by air pollution; prosthetics; biology; chemistry; the environment; tele-education and telemedicine; electronics; communication; navigation and timing; materials applications; energy storage; road 34 23-11905 A/78/20 development and oil and gas transportation systems; commercial aviation safety; airframe and turbine fracture mechanics and diagnostics; Internet access; laser data transfer, processing, analytics and storage; artificial intelligence and machine learning; earthquake and seismic monitoring; solar-terrestrial system monitoring; disaster management and emergency response and search and rescue services; and flood area mapping. In addition, it noted that many of the technologies developed for space applications and licensed by space agencies had been transferred to industries and had led to practical applications in society. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the international cooperation and technology transfer programmes of space agencies facilitated economic development in various industries and economic sectors, which, together with the creation of a large highly skilled and highly paid workforce through specialized training, made available to entrepreneurs, companies, academia and government agencies innovations that increased the overall quality of life of citizens. The delegations expressing that view also expressed the view that those programmes had contributed to strategic initiatives to create an integrated international space ecosystem that fostered private sector growth and industrial self-reliance, attracted foreign business investment and encouraged international collaboration. F. Space and water 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Space and water”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of Colombia, France, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Pakistan, the Philippines, South Africa and the United States made statements under the item. The observer for the Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water also made a statement under the item. During the general exchange of views, other member States also made statements relating to the item. 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Report on the United Nations/Ghana/Prince Sultan bin A bdulaziz International Prize for Water Fifth International Conference on the Use of Space Technology for Water Management (A/AC.105/1268); (b) Conference room paper entitled “Report on the Second Space4Water Stakeholder Meeting, online, 11−12 May 2023” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.22). 
In the course of the discussion, delegations reviewed water-related cooperation activities, giving examples of national programmes and bilateral, region al and international cooperation activities that demonstrated the beneficial effect of international cooperation and policies on the sharing of remote sensing data. 
The Committee noted that water and related issues were becoming some of the most critical environmental issues of the twenty-first century. The Committee also noted that, in order to contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, it was important to make use of space technologies, applications, practices and initiatives enabled by space-based observations of water. 
The Committee noted that a large number of space-borne platforms addressed water-related issues and that space-derived data were used extensively in water management. The Committee also noted that space technology and applications, combined with non-space technologies, played an important role in addressing many water-related issues, including the observation and study of sea levels; seawater intrusion mapping; global water cycles and unusual climate patterns; the mapping of surface water bodies, watercourses and basins, including the mapping of their seasonal and annual variabilities; the monitoring of water volume levels in dam reservoirs; the assessment of sedimentation processes in reservoirs and rivers; river run-off; the monitoring of evapotranspiration; estimated values for water quality parameters; the estimation of snowmelt run-off; the monitoring of groundwater 23-11905 35 A/78/20 resources; the planning and management of reservoirs and irrigation projects; early warning with regard to hydrological disasters; the monitoring and mitigation of the effects of floods, droughts, typhoons, cyclones, landslides and glacial lake outburst floods; the monitoring of soil moisture; the reuse of agricultural drainage water; the harvesting of rain; the identification of prospective zones of groundwater development; the improvement of the timeliness and accuracy of forecasts; and the identification of emergency situations, such as fires, pollution, salinization, water blooms, pipeline accidents and oil spills. 
The Committee noted that Sustainable Development Goal 6, on clean water and sanitation for all, could not be achieved without the successful implementation and monitoring of integrated water resource management. 
Some delegations expressed the view that climate change had become a crucial issue for stable water management, as it had caused serious droughts and water-related disasters. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the use of space technology applications in the decision-making process provided valuable insights in addressing water management issues and increasing understanding of the full water cycle. 
The view was expressed that continuous monitoring through geospatial technologies, enhanced by ground observations, contributed to the efficient and effective use and management of water resources and the prevention of water-related natural disasters. 
The view was expressed that the volume of data available was of no benefit if those data could not be accessed and used, and that open -source science was a commitment to the open sharing of software, data and knowledge as early as possible in the scientific process with a view to making publicly funded scientific research transparent, inclusive, accessible and reproducible. 
The Committee noted the value of the Space4Water portal of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, supported by the Prince Sultan bin Abdu laziz International Prize for Water, and highlighted the role of the portal in the dissemination of information on the use of space technology for water-related purposes. 
The Committee took note of the holding, in collaboration with the Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water, of the first and second Space4Water stakeholder meetings, hosted in October 2022 in Vienna and online in May 2023, respectively, as well as the holding of a participatory workshop for Indigenous women on their roles and responsibilities related to water, hosted in October 2022 in Vienna. G. Space and climate change 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Space and climate change”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of Argentina, Austria, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, France, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, New Zealand, Pakistan, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States made statements under the item. The observer for SGAC also made a statement. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Report on the United Nations/Austria Symposium on Space for Climate Action (A/AC.105/1269); (b) Conference room paper entitled “Report of the Space Generation Advisory Council on the role of space for climate action” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.13). 
The Committee heard the following presentations: 36 23-11905 A/78/20 (a) “Frozen ground monitoring from space”, by the representative of Austria; (b) of India; “Satellite meteorology and oceanography in India”, by the representative (c) “Strengthening the space value chain with Copernicus Sentinel data”, by the representative of the Philippines; (d) “You can’t manage what you don’t measure: how next-generation satellites can provide the world with critical data to adapt to a changing world”, by the representative of the United States; (e) “Satellite technology for climate resilience: the Eurisy engagement in supporting climate resilience measures”, by the observer for Eurisy. 
The Committee underscored the importance of collective action to mitigate and adapt to climate change as one of the most pressing global challenges of our time. In that regard, the Committee noted the growing value of space-based technology and space-based observations for scientific research on and better understanding of climate change and its impacts, and, consequently, for producing actionable data in s upport of decision-making and the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 13 on climate action and for monitoring of the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
The Committee noted the growing number of efforts undertaken at the national, regional and international levels in developing and operating satellites for observing atmospheric conditions. 
The Committee also noted the importance of multi-stakeholder partnerships and actions to tackle climate change by utilizing space-based observations and technologies, and the importance of supporting international cooperation in Earth observation, including through long-established organizations and bodies such as the World Meteorological Organization, CEOS, the Coordination Group for Meteorological Satellites, the Global Climate Observing System, the Group on Earth Observations and APSCO. 
The Committee noted the growing international collaboration among international partner agencies and organizations in joining and contributing to the efforts of the Space for Climate Observatory, of which currently France served as the secretariat. To date, there were 38 signatories to the Charter of the Observatory, which had entered into force on 1 September 2022, making the Observatory part of the landscape of multilateral networks dedicated to combating climate change and supporting the implementation of the Paris Agreement. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the twenty-eighth session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Cl imate Change would be held in Dubai from 30 November to 12 December 2023 under the presidency of the United Arab Emirates. 
The Committee noted that the United Nations/Austria Symposium on Space for Climate Action had been held from 13 to 15 September 2022 on the theme of “Space for climate action: experiences and best practices in mitigating and adapting to climate change and supporting sustainability on Earth”. 
The Committee noted the efforts of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, through its United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response (UN-SPIDER) programme and its network of currently 27 regional support offices, to build capacity and increase access to and the use of space-based solutions for disaster management, inter alia in relation to climate change-related natural disasters, and to facilitate the activation of the International Charter on Space and Major Disasters, a worldwide collaboration through which satellite data are made available to help countries with disaster relief efforts. 
The view was expressed that in order to build a more sustainable and climate-resilient future for all, Member States, international organizations and the private sector should strengthen collaboration, increase investments and facilitate 23-11905 37 A/78/20 technology transfer and capacity-building initiatives to ensure equitable access − in particular for developing countries − to space-based technologies and data for climate-related activities. 
The Committee noted with appreciation the strategic mapping exercise on existing international efforts using space technologies and applications to support climate adaptation, mitigation, monitoring and resilience, carried out by the Office for Outer Space Affairs with the support of the Government of the United Kingdom and detailed in the publication entitled “International efforts using space for climate action”. 
The Committee also noted the launch, as part of the efforts of the Office for Outer Space Affairs to support climate action, of the new “Space4Climate Action” website (https://space4climateaction.unoosa.org/), with the support of the Government of Austria, the purpose of which was to provide information on the use of space-based capabilities for climate action and to guide users towards appropriate actors and resources. H. Use of space technology in the United Nations system 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Use of space technology in the United Nations system”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico and Pakistan made statements under the item. The observer for the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) also made a statement. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Report of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities on its forty-first session and its sixteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth open sessions (A/AC.105/1291); (b) Report of the Secretary-General entitled “Coordination of space-related activities within the United Nations system: directions and anticipated results for the period 2022–2023 – capacity-building for an inclusive future” (A/AC.105/1292); (c) Conference room paper entitled “The International Telecommunication Union: activities and agenda items of the World Radiocommunication Conference 2023” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.23). 
The Acting Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs informed the Committee that the forty-first session of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities (UN-Space) had been held on 7 and 8 December 2022 in Bangkok, hosted by ESCAP and organized with the active support of the Information and Communications Technology and Disaster Risk Reduction Division of ESCAP. 
The Committee noted that the sixteenth open session of UN-Space, entitled “Joint UN-Space/UN-SPIDER Workshop High-level Panel on Space-based Technologies for Disaster Risk Reduction”, had been held in Bangkok on 9 December 2022; the seventeenth open session of UN-Space, entitled “UN-Space/World Space Forum Session IV: Space in the United Nations”, had been held online on 14 December 2022; and the eighteenth open session of UN-Space, on the identification of needs of Member States and United Nations entities for capacity-building in the use of space-based observations, had been held in Vienna from 1 to 3 March 2023, jointly with the twelfth meeting of the Working Group on Capacity-building and Data Democracy of CEOS. 
The Committee welcomed with appreciation the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Coordination of space-related activities within the United Nations system: 38 23-11905 A/78/20 directions and anticipated results for the period 2022–2023 – capacity-building for an inclusive future” (A/AC.105/1292). The Committee welcomed the report’s focus on reinforcing and avoiding duplication of efforts related to the use of space technology and applications in the work of United Nations entities, as well as on the central importance of capacity-building mandates within the United Nations system. 
The Committee noted with appreciation the publication of “Space -related activities within the United Nations system” (ST/SPACE/84), which had been prepared by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and made available on the Office’s website. 
The Committee noted that ITU would hold the World Radiocommunication Conference 2023 (WRC-23) in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, from 20 November to 15 December 2
The Committee noted that the fourth Ministerial Conference on Space Applications for Sustainable Development in Asia and the Pacific had been held in Indonesia in October 2022 on the theme of “SPACE+ for our Earth and future”. The Committee also noted that the Jakarta Ministerial Declaration on Space Applications for Sustainable Development in Asia and the Pacific, adopted at the Conference, encouraged States to better integrate digital technologies and innovations with traditional space applications and to further the use of geospatial information applications. 
The Committee noted that the third segment of the Unispace Nanosatellite Assembly and Training by the Indian Space Research Organization (UNNATI) programme had been conducted from 15 October to 15 December 2022 and had included hands-on training on nanosatellite assembly. 
The Committee noted that the Secretary-General, in his policy brief entitled “For all humanity – the future of outer space governance”, recommended that United Nations entities increase their collaboration, including through UN -Space, with a view to better coordinating their data-sharing, building United Nations system capacity and cooperating on the procurement of space-based information, to accelerate the application of space assets in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. 
The Committee encouraged entities of the United Nations system to participate, as appropriate, in the coordination efforts of UN-Space. I. Future role and method of work of the Committee 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Future role and method of work of the Committee”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of Algeria, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, the Republi c of Korea, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. The representative of South Africa made a statement on behalf of the Group of African States. The observers for IAA and SWF also made statements. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Note by the Secretariat on the governance and method of work of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subsidiary bodies (A/AC.105/C.1/L.408); 23-11905 39 A/78/20 (b) Conference room paper entitled “Review of the financial and other implications of webcasting and remote simultaneous interpretation services for sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees”, prepared by the Secretariat (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.16); (c) Conference room paper entitled “Review of management of printed documents at sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees”, prepared by the Secretariat (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.20); (d) Working paper entitled “Modifying the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space”, submitted by the Russian Federation (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.24). 
The Committee heard a presentation entitled “IAA activities in support of future agendas of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subcommittees”, by the observer for IAA. 
The Committee recalled the deliberations on the item as reflected in the report of the Committee on its sixty-fifth session (A/77/20, paras. 281–300), the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixtieth session ( A/AC.105/1279, paras. 209–232) and the report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty -second session (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 123–156). 
The Committee noted that the Committee and its subcommittees served as a unique platform for international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee could benefit from the latest research, practical experience and scientific practice through wider engagement with non-State actors, including the private sector and the scientific community. 
Some delegations expressed the view that although non-governmental processes could benefit or supplement the work of the Committe e in certain ways, such processes should not interfere with that work. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee should pay more attention to new challenges and new situations so as to promote global governance of outer space and the progressive development of space law more effectively, with a view to elaborating binding instruments. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee should include cross-cutting issues both in the agenda of the Committee and in the agendas of its two subcommittees. 
Some delegations expressed the view that new items should be added to the agenda of the Committee and its subcommittees only when other items were removed. 
The view was expressed that work on space accords, including the Artemis Accords, which was going forward on the basis of international organization frameworks, would result in fragmentation among Member States and should therefore be considered by the Committee. 
The view was expressed that the Artemis Accords facilitated cooperative activities based on the open sharing of scientific data with the public and the international scientific community. 
The view was expressed that the voluntary implementation of Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities required, for m any countries, access to databases which were in the possession of a small number of countries and that in such circumstances, the Committee should play a key role as a facilitator to provide the required international framework for the implementation of t he Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities. 
The view was expressed that a procedure to be followed in cases of force majeure should be established in order to ensure the continuity of the work of the Committee in crisis situations such as that brought about by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. 40 23-11905 A/78/20 
The view was expressed that the annotated provisional agenda and other official documents should be published well in advance of each session. 
The view was expressed that decision-making points and the schedule for the consideration of those decisions should be made known to delegations in advance. 
The view was expressed that the Committee and other forums of the United Nations should deal with issues related to outer space in accordance with their respective mandates. The delegation expressing that view was also of the view that the capacity-building work of the Committee and the synergies between its two Subcommittees should be further enhanced. 
The Committee expressed its satisfaction with the secretariat’s efforts to reduce the volume of printed documentation and its work to make available live webcasts of and scheduling information relating to technical presentations, informal meetings of working groups and side events, as well as lists of speakers. 
The Committee reached agreement on the following: (a) Future sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees are to be held in in-person format and regular-budget mandated meetings are to be webcast on United Nations WebTV, at no cost to the Office for Outer Space Affairs; (b) With the exception of the item on the general exchange of views, all agenda items of the Committee and its subcommittees are be considered in sequential order, while the holding of working group meetings should not be precluded ; (c) For all agenda items, representatives of member States are the first to be given the opportunity to speak under an agenda item, and only then should the floor be given to representatives of observer organizations; (d) In order to encourage informal discussions and enhance exchanges among member States, the secretariat should, when practicable, seek measures to avoid scheduling working group informal meetings concurrently with plenary meetings and instead utilize designated time slots before the morning meetings and during the lunch break for informal meetings; (e) The secretariat should, when practicable and when formal plenary meetings conclude earlier than scheduled, make interpretation services available for informal discussions. These measures are aimed at supporting inclusive and productive engagement during informal discussions; (f) Member States and international intergovernmental organizations with permanent observer status with the Committee are requested to indicate in their accreditation submission if they wish to receive conferenc e room papers in hard copy, to be placed in their respective pigeonholes. 
The Committee agreed that member States should actively consider the streamlining of the Committee’s agenda and hold consultations during the sessions of its subcommittees in 2024 under the agenda item on the future role and method of work of the Committee. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the agenda of the Committee could be streamlined by merging the items “Space and water” and “Space and climate change”, or the items “Future role and method of work of the Committee” and “Other matters”. J. Space exploration and innovation 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Space exploration and innovation”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, France, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Republic of Korea, Romania, the Russian Federation, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United 23-11905 41 A/78/20 States made statements under the item. The representative of the European Union, in its capacity as permanent observer, made a statement on behalf of the European Union and its member States. The observers for the Open Lunar Foundation, SGAC and the World Space Week Association also made statements. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the agenda item were also made by other member States. 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Report of the United Nations/China Second Global Partnership Workshop on Space Exploration and Innovation (A/AC.105/1294); (b) Conference room paper entitled “Proposal for assessing lunar coordination mechanisms within the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space”, submitted by Romania (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.8); (c) Conference room paper entitled “Report of the Moon Village As sociation on the Global Expert Group on Sustainable Lunar Activities – Status/Plan”, submitted by the Moon Village Association (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.9). 
The Committee heard the following presentations under the item: (a) “International lunar research station”, by the representative of China; (b) “A journey to the Moon by the Republic of Korea”, by the representative of the Republic of Korea; (c) “National cislunar science and technology strategy”, by the representative of the United States; (d) “For all humanity: implementing NASA’s Artemis missions”, by the representative of the United States; (e) “APSCO’s initiatives in space exploration – the Moon and beyond”, by the observer for APSCO; (f) “The Lunar Commerce Portfolio report: main results”, b y the observer for the Moon Village Association. 
The Committee recalled the origin of the present agenda item and the work of the Action Team on Exploration and Innovation, which had produced the first -ever United Nations report emphasizing the importance of human space exploration beyond low Earth orbit (see A/AC.105/1168). 
The Committee noted with appreciation that delegations had, at the current session, shared information and updates on space exploration and innovation endeavours, including details of national activities, programmes and achievements, as well as examples of related bilateral, regional and multilateral cooperation. 
The Committee noted that, in the course of the discussions, information had been provided on, inter alia, research and development activities; space object launches; developments in human space flight programmes; selections of astronauts, including the first-ever para-astronaut, thanks to ESA; activities and cooperation opportunities related to the International Space Station and the China Space Station; robotic exploration activities; numerous missions to the Moon, Mars, the moons of Mars, Jupiter’s icy moons, the Sun and asteroids; the first changin g of the orbit of an asteroid; satellite-, lander- and rover-based experiments; the collection and return of samples; the first images of early space from a next-generation telescope; the planned Lunar Gateway outpost; the planned international lunar research station; the world’s first dedicated lunar communications relay spacecraft; a novel technique for automated mineral resource mapping of the lunar surface; inflatable technologies for Moon surface logistic modules; the world’s first H-alpha spectral scanning imaging in space; a new record for the strongest directly measured magnetic field in the universe; developments in rocket technology, launch vehicle propulsion systems, crew module parachute systems and reliable, long -duration power sources; systems for demonstrating in-situ-resource utilization; interplanetary telecommunication 42 23-11905 A/78/20 systems, including a large deployable antenna; the influence of space flight factors on biological objects; innovative uses of Big Data and artificial intelligence; the development of space-related white papers, action statements, plans, road maps, strategies and laws; a joint communication on space traffic management; a space exploration innovation hub centre; a centre for innovation and space resources; a “space resources challenge”; a space resources week; public consultation on a proposal for an ordinance establishing safety standards and good practices for the launch and operation of amateur rockets; the celebration of 2023 as a “year of open science”; open days at companies to raise citizen awareness of space exploration; an “Astronaut for a Day” initiative; successes of space start-up companies; efforts to foster entrepreneurship and innovation in the space sector; and the increasing human and financial resources being committed to space exploration and innovation. 
The Committee also noted that on 30 May 2023, the day before the start of the current session, a record in human space flight had been achieved, a total of 17 people being in outer space at the same time. 
The Committee further noted that June 2023 marked the sixtieth anniversary of Valentina Tereshkova’s historic space flight. 
The Committee noted that space exploration had the power to create new knowledge, foster the development of new technologies, stimulate e conomies and inspire humanity. 
The Committee also noted that the exploration of space, whether by humans or robots, opened up new sites for scientific investigation and that research enabled by exploration missions expanded knowledge of the universe and c ould address some of the most fundamental questions faced by humankind. 
The Committee further noted the importance of collaboration among all stakeholders in space exploration and innovation activities, including Governments and government agencies, non-governmental entities, academic institutions, scientific and technical research centres, industry and the private sector. 
The Committee noted efforts to promote diversity and inclusion in space exploration and innovation activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that as developing countries increasingly engaged in space activities, developing their own space programmes and policies, it was crucial that those countries should not be left behind or unfairly treated in space exploration efforts. 
The view was expressed that, since a number of planned space missions involved activities and technologies not previously envisioned for deep -space exploration, it was important that the rules governing those activities should provide sufficient flexibility to allow adjustments to be made in the light of experience while ensuring that safety, security and sustainability were maintained. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the principles contained in the Artemis Accords on the Principles for Cooperation in the Civil Exploration and Use of the Moon, Mars, Comets, and Asteroids for Peaceful Purposes promoted cooperation, transparency and information exchange and that the principles could be applied as they currently stood or could be adapted, if necessary, to acc ount for new technologies, discoveries and laws in the future. 
The view was expressed that a new global partnership for space exploration and innovation should be built, based on equality, mutual benefit, openness, inclusiveness and peaceful uses and for the benefit of all humankind. 
The view was expressed that it was important to have strong political commitment and a strategic vision that integrated space as a priority area of interest, and that that commitment must materialize through long-term plans that provided a clear path towards space exploration and innovation. 23-11905 43 A/78/20 
Some delegations expressed the view that start-up companies brought innovation and cost-effective solutions that benefited space technology endeavours, ensuring capacity transfer and enabling a competitive yet cooperative space technology ecosystem. 
The view was expressed that the space industry of the future was an area where a multitude of new players could have an impact and that the vast potential of the space ecosystem, including exploration and science for all of humanity, could only be guaranteed if the long-term sustainability of space activities was ensured, international law was adhered to and actions were taken in the interest of all States. 
Some delegations expressed the view that voluntary cooperation on matters of common interest related to lunar operations, including the formal exchange of information among stakeholders, was of crucial importance for current and future activities, and indicated that they would welcome related discussions on a coordination mechanism within the Committee. 
The Committee noted with appreciation the United Nations/China Second Global Partnership Workshop on Space Exploration and Innovation, held from 21 to 24 November 2022, during which stakeholders had exchanged space exploration and innovation plans and strategies, scientific and technical innovations and legal and policy practices for fostering global partnership in space exploration and innovation (see A/AC.105/1294). K. “Space2030” Agenda 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “‘Space2030’ Agenda”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
The representatives of Austria, Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Germany, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico, Norway, the Philippines, Romania and the Republic of Korea made statements under the item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee had before it the report on the United Nations/Republic of Korea Space for Women expert meeting, on the theme of “Access and participation of women and girls in the space sector”, held from 16 to 19 August 2022 in Daejeon, Republic of Korea (A/AC.105/1273). 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Chilean space governance”, by the representative of Chile; (b) “Promote the modernization of the aerospace industry system through open, shared and inclusive development: introduction to the nin th China (International) Commercial Aerospace Forum”, by the representative of China; (c) “The INNOspace Network Space2Agriculture: German support of the Sustainable Development Goals and facilitating cross-industry Innovation based on Space Technology”, by the representative of Germany; (d) “Result of the United Nations/Republic of Korea Space Space4Women expert Meeting in 2022”, by the representative of the Republic of Korea; (e) “The missing ‘d’ in diversity: addressing disability inclusion thro ugh the UNOOSA Space for Persons with Disabilities project”, by the representative of the Office for Outer Space Affairs; (f) “Integration of geospatial information for sustainable development: practices of ESCAP”, by the observer for the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. 
The Committee recalled that the “Space2030” Agenda: space as a driver of sustainable development, and its implementation plan, adopted by the General 44 23-11905 A/78/20 Assembly in its resolution 76/3, constituted a high-level political document that showcased the contribution of space activities and space tools to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, the broad societal benefits of space activities and the essential role of space technologies and applications, and of space -derived data, in furthering economic growth and prosperity. 
The Committee further noted that the “Space2030” Agenda also contributed to charting the future role of the Committee and supporting its key role in maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes, strengthening the global governance of outer space activities and ensuring the long-term sustainability of outer space activities. 
The Committee welcomed the efforts of Paraguay, in its capacity as Chair of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, to seek the inclusion of references to the “Space2030” Agenda and the relevance of space science and technology for sustainable development in the political declaration to be adopted at the Sustainable Development Goals Summit to be held on 18 and 19 September 2023, as reflected in the final report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1279, para. 72). 
The Committee noted that the success of the “Space2030” Agenda depended on the translation of the document into concrete actions, drawing on the partnerships and tools outlined in the implementation plan of the “Space2030” Agenda . In that regard, the Committee noted that in implementing the “Space2030” Agenda, States contributed to and benefited from a number of space-related international and regional mechanisms, programmes, projects and platforms, as well as from tools and initiatives that had been developed or were being developed by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and that contributed to furthering the four overarching objectives of the “Space2030” Agenda, those objectives being structured around the four pillars of space economy, space society, space accessibility and space diplomacy. 
The Committee, recalling the emphasis that the “Space2030” Agenda placed on promoting gender equality in space activities and strengthening the participation of women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education, noted that, as part of the Office for Outer Space Affairs Space for Women project, the third Space for Women expert meeting had been held in Daejeon, Republic of Korea, from 16 to 19 August 2
The Committee further noted that the fourth Space for Women expert meeting would be held from 30 October to 3 November 2023 in Montreal, Canada. 
The view was expressed that the Committee should work to ensure the effective implementation of the “Space2030” Agenda through the bridging of the gap in the capacities of different countries to use space technologies and applications, the further improvement of global space governance and enhancement of the contribution of space activities to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 
The view was expressed that the “Space2030” Agenda was also important in that one of its aims was to promote and strengthen the use of outer space for sustainable ocean economies, which was of vital importance for several countries. 
The Committee recalled that a midterm review of progress made in implementing the “Space2030” Agenda would be conducted in 2025 and that the Office for Outer Space Affairs intended to make the “Space2030” Agenda and implementation plan available as a publication in order to increase its visibility and impact in the broader international community. 
The Committee noted the publication of the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the European Union Agency for the Space Programme entitled Contribution to the “Space2030” Agenda: EU Space Supporting the World of 8 Billion People (ST/SPACE/85). L. Other matters 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Other matters”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/
-11905 45 A/78/20 
The representatives of Iran (Islamic Republic of) and Switzerland m ade statements under the agenda item. A statement was also made by the representative of Czechia on behalf of the Eastern European States. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
Composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the period 2024–2025 
The Committee recalled that the General Assembly, in paragraph 11 of its resolution 58/89, had endorsed the agreement reached by the Committee on the future composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies ( A/58/20, annex II, paras. 5–9), on the basis of the measures relating to the working methods of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies (see A/52/20, annex I, and A/58/20, annex II, appendix III), which had previously been endorsed by the Assembly in its resolution 52/
The Committee further recalled that, in accordance with the measures relating to the future composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies, the Committee should reach agreement at its sixty-sixth session on all officers of the bureaux for the period 2024–2
The Committee noted that the African States had endorsed the candidatures of Sherif Mohamed Sedky (Egypt) and Rafiq Akram (Morocco) for the office of Chair of the Committee for 2024 and 2025, respectively (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.25). 
The Committee noted that the Western European and other States had endorsed the candidature of Santiago Ripol Carulla (Spain) for the office of Chair of the Legal Subcommittee for the period 2024–2025 (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.14). 
The Committee urged the Asia-Pacific States, the Eastern European States and the Latin American and Caribbean States to nominate their candidates for the offices of Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur of the Committee, Chair of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and First Vice-Chair of the Committee, respectively, for the period 2024–2025, before the consideration by the Fourth Committee of the draft resolution on international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space at the seventy-eighth session of the General Assembly, in 2
Observer status 
With regard to the applications of non-governmental organizations for the status of permanent observer with the Committee, the Committee recalled its agreement at its fifty-third session, in 2010 (A/65/20, para. 311), that observer status would be granted to non-governmental organizations on a provisional basis, for a period of three years, pending information on the status of their application for consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, that the provisional observer status could be extended for an additional year, if necessary, and that it would grant permanent observer status to such non-governmental organizations upon confirmation of their consultative status with the Council. 
The Committee took note of the application of the European Astronomical Society for permanent observer status with the Committee. The application and the relevant correspondence were before the Committee in conference room paper A/AC.105/2023/CRP.
The Committee decided to grant the European Astronomical Society the status of observer, on a provisional basis, for a period of three years, pending informa tion on the status of its application for consultative status with the Economic and Social Council. 
The Committee took note of the application of Three Country -Trusted Broker for permanent observer status with the Committee. The application and the relevan t 46 23-11905 A/78/20 correspondence were before A/AC.105/2023/CRP.
the Committee in conference room paper 
The Committee decided to grant Three Country-Trusted Broker the status of observer, on a provisional basis, for a period of three years, pending information on the status of its application for consultative status with the Economic and Social Council. 
Programme 5, “Peaceful uses of outer space”: proposed programme plan for the period 2024 and programme performance for 2022 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Conference room paper entitled “Programme 5, ‘Peaceful uses of outer space’: proposed programme plan for the period 2024” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.3); (b) Proposed programme budget for 2024 (A/78/6 (Sect. 6)). 
The Committee agreed on the proposed programme plan. 
Other matters 
The view was expressed that the Committee played an essential role in the global governance of space activities, in particular in relation to the viability and safety of space activities, as reaffirmed by its member States in 2021 through the adoption of the “Space2030” Agenda, and that it was essential that the Committee consider with all due attention the proposals made in the Secretary-General’s policy brief entitled “For all humanity – the future of outer space governance” and contribute to the preparation of the Summit of the Future while enhancing the dialogue with stakeholders. 
Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-seventh session of the Committee 
The Committee recommended that the following items should be considered at its sixty-seventh session, in 2024: 23-11905 
Opening of the session. 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Election of officers. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. 
Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixty -first session. 
Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty-third session. 
Space and sustainable development. 
Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status. 
Space and water. 
Space and climate change. 
Use of space technology in the United Nations system. 
Future role and method of work of the Committee. 
Space exploration and innovation. 
“Space2030” Agenda. 
Other matters. 
Report of the Committee to the General Assembly. 47 A/78/20 M. Schedule of work of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies 
