United Nations  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.6   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 27 March 2023  Original: English   V.23-05586 (E) *2305586*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space Legal Subcommittee Sixty-second session Vienna, 20–31 March 2023         Draft report     Addendum    II. General exchange of views   
Statements were made by representatives of the following States members of the Committee during the general exchange of views: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czechia, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia,  Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, Thailand, Türkiye, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). A statement was made by the representative of Pakistan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. A statement was made by the representative of Ghana on behalf of the African Group. The representative of the European Union, in its capacity as permanent observer, made a statement on behalf of the European Union and its member States. The observers for APSCO, ESA, For All Moonkind, the Hague Institute for Global Justice, the Moon Village Association, the National Space Society, the Open Lunar Foundation, SGAC, the Square Kilometre Array Observatory and UNISEC-Global also made statements. 
The Subcommittee heard the following presentations:   (a) “The first International Moon Day: results and outlook for 2023”, by the observer for the Moon Village Association;  (b) “The lunar commerce portfolio report: main results”, by the observer for the Moon Village Association. 
At the 1034th meeting, on 20 March, the Chair made a statement in which she referred to the programme of work and organizational matters pertaining to the current session of the Subcommittee. The Chair noted the expansion of space operations in recent years throughout the world. She also noted the corresponding growing need to coordinate and commit to legislative efforts and to non-binding mechanisms and guidelines, which were required to improve global collaboration in space activities to A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.6   V.23-05586 2/4  the advantage of all nations, taking into particular account the needs of developing countries. 
At the same meeting, the Subcommittee heard a statement by the Acting Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, in which he, among other things, reviewed the role of the Office in discharging the responsibilities of the Secretary-General under the United Nations treaties on outer space, including the maintenance of the Register of Objects Launched into Outer Space. In particular, the Subcommittee was informed that, in 2022, the Office had registered, on behalf of the Secretary-General,  2,055 functional and 44 non-functional space objects and had received notifications of 317 space object re-entries and additional information on 12 space objects. Since the beginning of 2023, the Office had received registration submissions for  410 functional and non-functional objects. 
The Subcommittee reaffirmed the importance of implementing, at the national level, the principles enshrined in the United Nations treaties governing space activities and called upon all States operating in outer space and States with operators conducting activities in outer space to develop and implement, to the extent that they had not already done so, national laws and regulations to govern those activities and operations.  
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee and its subsidiary bodies continued to be the only forum within the United Nations for comprehensive discussions on matters related to the peaceful uses of outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, and that there should be more interaction between the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and the Legal Subcommittee in order to promote advances in space law and keep space law aligned with major scientific and technical advances. The delegations expressing that view were also of the view that coordinating the work of the Subcommittees and using the synergies between them would promote understanding and acceptance and would further the implementation of the existing United Nations legal instruments. 
Some delegations reaffirmed their strict adherence to the principles governing the activities of States in the exploration and use of outer space, including those outlined in General Assembly resolutions 1884 (XVIII) and 1962 (XVIII), specifically: (a) universal and equal access to outer space for all countries without discrimination, regardless of their level of scientific, technical and economic development, as well as the equitable and rational use of outer space for the benefit and in the interests of all humankind; (b) the principle of non-appropriation of outer space, including the Moon and other celestial bodies, which could not be appropriated by any State, by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation or by any other means; (c) the non-militarization of outer space, which was never to be used for the placement and/or deployment of weapons of any kind, and, as the province of humankind, its strict use for the improvement of living conditions and peace among peoples; and (d) international cooperation in the development of space activities, in particular those referred to in the Declaration on International Cooperation in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space for the Benefit and in the Interest of All States, Taking into Particular Account the Needs of Developing Countries.  
Some delegations expressed the view that discussions within the Legal Subcommittee should not lead to norms, guidelines, standards or other measures that would limit the access of nations with emerging space capabilities, in particular developing countries, to outer space. In the view of those delegations, the international legal framework should be developed in a manner that addressed the concerns of all States.  
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important to prevent an arms race and the placement of weapons of any kind in outer space, and called upon all States, in particular those with major space capabilities, to contribute actively and commit to preserving outer space as a peaceful environment. In the view of those delegations, the sustainability of outer space activities, in both the short and the long  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.6  3/4 V.23-05586  term, required that the international community ensure that no weapons were ever placed or used there.  
Some delegations expressed the view that issues concerning the use of outer space for security purposes were more appropriately discussed in forums whose mandates focused on those issues.  
The view was expressed that the open-ended working group on reducing space threats through norms, rules and principles of responsible behaviours, established pursuant to General Assembly resolution 76/231, was conducting important work in Geneva. The view was also expressed that there should be mutual consideration on the part of the Committee and its Subcommittees and the open-ended working group of each other’s work, while respecting the differences in the mandates and aiming to avoid the duplication of efforts. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Artemis Accords on the Principles for Cooperation in the Civil Exploration and Use of the Moon, Mars, Comets, and Asteroids for Peaceful Purposes provided clear, non-legally binding guidance for space exploration and established a useful set of principles based on the Outer Space Treaty that were aimed at ensuring the safe, transparent, sustainable and beneficial use of space.  
Some delegations expressed the view that cooperation on the international lunar research station initiated by China and the Russian Federation provided new opportunities for international cooperation to explore space.  
Some delegations reiterated their opposition to the establishment of a new regional centre for space science and technology education in the Eurasian region, affiliated to the United Nations, hosted by the Roscosmos Corporate Academy, as proposed by the Government of the Russian Federation. Those delegations were also of the view that although the General Assembly, in its resolution 76/76, had noted with satisfaction the progress in the establishment of the regional centre, in the light of recent developments, they were not in a position to accept any affiliation of that regional centre to the United Nations.  
The view was expressed that the Committee, at its sixty-fourth session, had noted that the evaluation mission on the proposed establishment of the regional centre for space science and technology education had resulted in the recommendation to accept the offer of the Russian Federation to establish the regional centre and that the Committee had welcomed the progress on the establishment of the regional centre, and thus no additional agreement was required by the Committee. The delegation expressing that view also informed the Committee that the centre was already operational and providing services. Over 100 applicants from various countries in the region had been successfully accepted by the Centre as students. 
The view was expressed that all delegations should abide by the rules of procedure of the General Assembly and speak to issues within the consensus agenda of the Subcommittee. 
Some delegations welcomed that outer space issues relevant to the work of the Committee could feature prominently at the Sustainable Development Goals Summit, to be held in New York in September 2023, and the Summit of the Future, to be held in New York in September 2024, recognizing the need for the international community to come together to discuss ways and means to reinforce space governance in the interest of maintaining a sustainable outer space for the benefit of present and future generations.  
