United Nations  A/AC.105/1271/Add.2   General Assembly  Distr.: General 22 November 2022  Original: Arabic/English/French/ Russian   V.22-26423 (E)    201222    211222 *2226423*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space          International cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space: activities of Member States       Note by the Secretariat     Addendum   Contents   Page II. Replies received from Member States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2 Belarus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2 Jordan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4 Malaysia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5 Mali . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7 Portugal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9    A/AC.105/1271/Add.2   V.22-26423 2/11   II. Replies received from Member States      Belarus   [Original: Russian] [4 November 2022] Under the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus is responsible for implementing a unified State policy on, and for coordinating and regulating activities relating to, the exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes. The Space Research Agency was established at the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus in 2015 in order to fulfil the Academy’s mandated tasks relating to outer space.  The space policy of the Republic of Belarus is based on the provisions of the 1967 Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, and is aimed at the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the United Nations Member States on 25 September 20
Space-related activities in Belarus are carried out as part of the State programme for the peaceful exploration and use of outer space, covering the period 2021–2025, which was approved by the Government and for the coordination of which the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus is responsible. On the basis of current scientific and industrial capacity and State priorities aimed at the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the United Nations, the Republic of Belarus has identified the following areas for the development of activities relating to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space under the space programme for 2021–2025:  • Implementation of the national space programme for 2021–2025  • Development of the Belarusian Space System for Earth Remote Sensing through the establishment of a Russian-Belarusian space system on the basis of a Russian-Belarusian satellite capable of capturing highly detailed images – with a spatial resolution of 0.35 metres – and ground-based Belarusian facilities for control and for receiving, processing and distributing the space information generated   • Improvement of a multilevel Earth remote sensing system comprising space, aviation (unpiloted component) and ground segments  • Development and launch of a nanosatellite with a specialized payload as part of the scientific and technical programme of the Union State, and creation of a joint Russian-Belarusian constellation of small satellites  • Use of the information obtained through space activities to support various areas of the country’s socioeconomic development, including precision farming, digitalization of the national economy and Antarctic research  • Development of the national system of satellite communications and broadcasting on the basis of the Belarusian geostationary communication satellite with a view to increasing the volume and quality of communication and broadcasting services provided to domestic and foreign users  • Development of navigation, geodetic and cartographical activities using space technologies  • Development of the aerospace education system using educational nanosatellites  A/AC.105/1271/Add.2  3/11 V.22-26423   • Development of new materials used in the construction of spacecraft for  near-Earth and deep-space exploration   • Participation in international projects involving the study of the Moon, Mars and other deep-space objects  More than 20 scientific and industrial organizations are active in the Belarusian space sector, which employs approximately 4,000 qualified experts. The national operator of the Belarusian Space System for Earth Remote Sensing, which comprises the Belarusian satellite BKA, the Belarusian ground control station and the Belarusian ground station for receiving, processing and distributing the information generated, is Geoinformation Systems, a science and engineering State unitary enterprise.  Launched into orbit on 22 July 2012, the BKA satellite, which provides 2 m resolution, and the Belarusian Space System for Earth Remote Sensing, which operates on the basis of that satellite, continue to perform the tasks for which they were designed. The launch of the BKA satellite has enabled Belarus to establish its informational sovereignty in the area of Earth remote sensing data. In 2022, Earth remote sensing data from the Belarusian Space System for Earth Remote Sensing were transmitted under 25 agreements concluded with user entities attached to nine State bodies. The main users are the Ministry for Emergency Situations, the State Committee on Property, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Forestry.  Information from the BKA satellite is used for monitoring natural and human-caused emergencies, studying the state of and forecasting changes in natural landscapes and maintaining the State land registry, for agricultural applications and for road construction, reconstruction and planning. Satellite imagery forms the basis for the production of topographic maps and navigational charts and is widely used in geological exploration and aerospace education. Optoelectronic equipment, microelectronic components, software, materials and component devices produced for space systems have reached a new technical and technological level in terms of their design.  The distributed system for receiving, processing and disseminating timely space information from satellites (Aqua, Suomi NPP, NOAA-20, MetOp and Fengyun-3), created as part of the national space programme for the period 2016–2020 and forming part of the Belarusian Space System for Earth Remote Sensing, makes it possible to receive, process, store and disseminate Earth remote sensing data from 12 meteorological satellites. These data are transmitted up to 26 times a day to the Ministry for Emergency Situations, the Ministry’s national centre, the National Centre for Hydrometeorology, Radioactive Pollution Control and Environmental Monitoring and other relevant users.  In 2020, Earth remote sensing data transmitted from meteorological satellites to the National Centre for Emergency Management and Response, which forms part of the Ministry for Emergency Situations, served as the primary information source enabling the detection of 250 fires in natural ecosystems (10 per cent of the total number registered). From the time at which the national operator of the Belarusian Space System for Earth Remote Sensing received the data from the meteorological satellites, it took no more than 10 minutes for the information on the thermal anomalies detected to reach the Ministry for Emergency Situations. The Belarusian communications satellite Belintersat-1 has been successfully operating in geostationary orbit since 20
Its service areas are Europe, Africa and Asia. The telecommunications satellite has made it possible to put into operation the National Satellite Communications and Broadcasting System, which provides a wide range of services, including data transmission, voice communication, Internet access and satellite broadcasting of television programmes. A/AC.105/1271/Add.2   V.22-26423 4/11  The Belarusian State University is the leading educational institution in the aerospace education system in Belarus. In 2018, the Belarusian educational nanosatellite BSU Sat-1, which offers a wide range of educational applications, was launched into orbit. The nanosatellite is used as an educational and scientific laboratory. Together with ground-based facilities for control and for receiving and processing data, it enables students to master space technologies and conduct scientific research in real conditions.  Areas for the further development of aerospace education are as follows:  • Creation of a centre for the technological testing of very small satellites  • Modernization and automation of ground-based facilities for control and for receiving and processing information   • Adaptation of educational courses for aerospace industry specialists to practical applications, with a focus on service platform systems and satellite payloads, with a view to attracting a large number of high-school graduates, including foreign students   • Organization of international courses and seminars for the advanced training and retraining of aerospace industry specialists at the Aerospace Education Centre.  A second scientific and educational nanosatellite is scheduled for launch in 20
Jordan   [Original: Arabic] [25 October 2022]      Activities of the Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for  Western Asia for 2022  The Royal Jordanian Geographical Centre used the facilities of the Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Western Asia, which is hosted by the Royal Jordanian Geographical Centre, to hold several courses and activities related to space science and technology:  • Special courses on space science and technology, the most important of which was a course entitled “The basics of space science and technology”, for university students, academics and specialized government officials and members of the Jordanian armed forces.   • A scientific symposium on the occasion of World Space Week, the theme of which this year was “Space and Sustainability”. Participants in the symposium, which took place on 5 and 6 October, were briefed on the latest and most important developments in space science and technology. The sessions were dedicated to the most important topics related to space science and sustainable development and the latest research in those fields.   • Many lectures and seminars on space science and technology were held, the most significant of which were entitled “Discovery and the space mining age”, “The Webb Space Telescope and its discoveries”, “The crescent and the holy month of Ramadan” and “Seminar on desertification”.   • An astronomy day was organized with a view to strengthening the role that the Regional Centre plays in promoting astronomy in the local community.   • The Jordanian Astronomical Society has organized several relevant activities, including lectures on the following topics:    Special relativity    The Wow! radio signal after 45 years   A/AC.105/1271/Add.2  5/11 V.22-26423    Future scenarios for energy production    Important concepts in the Artemis programme    Dark matter    Study of stellar constellations    Space and sustainability    Dark energy     Malaysia   [Original: English] [8 November 2022]  The development of the space sector in Malaysia is guided by the National Space Policy 2030, which was established in 2017 to state the country’s stance and objective in developing the country’s space sector to support economic development and knowledge advancement for the well-being of the people. In order to achieve the objective and successful implementation of the policy, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, through the Malaysian Space Agency (MYSA) has prepared a national action plan known as Malaysia Space Exploration 2030 to spur the growth of the country’s space sector. This action plan outlines strategies, initiatives and programmes until 2030 that will create a sustainable national space ecosystem to contribute to the competitiveness and well-being of the country. The six main initiatives being implemented or that have been planned under this action plan are described below.    
Development of national space legislation The Government of Malaysia gazetted the Malaysian Space Board Act 2020 on  25 January 20
The Act is in line with General Assembly resolution 68/74 on recommendations on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. The Act partially entered into force on 4 August 2022, and the Malaysia Space Board was established in July 2022 to enforce and regulate the country’s space sector activities and ensure that the country’s space activities are carried out in accordance with the relevant rules and guidelines as agreed at the international level. To help the Board to fulfil its roles, the Government has also established the Space Regulatory Division under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation.  Malaysia is currently in the process of enacting the Malaysian Space Board regulations so that the Act can be fully enforced by early 20
Through the implementation of the Act, Malaysia will be able to fulfil its international obligations and ratify or accede to the relevant international space treaties and instruments that would help catalyse the country’s progress towards achieving the new space economy.  In parallel with the efforts in the country, Malaysia aspires to be the regional focal point of reference and centre of excellence in space policy and space law. In that regard, with the support of the member States of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Malaysia is currently working on the establishment of a regional centre for studies and research in space law and policy.   
National satellite development and launching Realizing the importance of and the need for using the data and information from remote sensing satellite for national development, resource management, disasters and security, the Government has launched two small satellites for research and development purposes and building local talent in space technology. The satellites are the TiungSAT-1 and the RazakSAT, which were launched in 2000 and 2009, respectively.  A/AC.105/1271/Add.2   V.22-26423 6/11  To strengthen the country’s capacity and capability in space technology to meet the country’s needs in satellite data services and to increase local expertise and optimize the use of existing space technology facilities at MYSA (for satellite testing and operations), the Government will continue the remote sensing satellite development programme through the public-private partnership. This initiative will open up wider opportunities for strategic cooperation between the Government and local industries to strengthen the competitiveness of the national space ecosystem and also contribute to economic growth, in line with the National Space Policy 20
The launch of the satellite of the public-private partnership is planned in 20
In addition to remote sensing satellites, Malaysia has launched several communication satellites led by the private sector since the 1990s. The latest satellite launched is MEASAT-3d on 23rd June 20
There are also other private sector initiatives in the research and development of Femto-class satellites and a constellation of small satellites in low Earth orbit to provide regional Internet services. Satellite development programmes, especially CubeSats and nanosatellites, are also implemented in several local universities for education development and space research activities. Among the universities are the MARA University of Technology, the University of Putra Malaysia, the University of Science Malaysia and the University of Technology of Malaysia. Malaysia also contributes expertise at the regional level through the ASEANSAT nanosatellite project. ASEANSAT is a cooperative research programme of the MARA University of Technology of Malaysia, the University of Perpetual Help System DALTA of the Philippines, King Mongkut’s University of Technology North Bangkok of Thailand and the Kyushu Institute of Technology of Japan. The nanosatellite is being built locally by utilizing related facilities and expertise in the Mara University of Technology and MYSA, funded under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation. The ASEANSAT nanosatellite is planned to be launched to the International Space Station in the first quarter of 2023, after which the satellite will go into a low Earth orbit.   
Multi-Sector Remote Sensing Satellite Data Application Systems  MYSA has collaborated with government agencies at various levels to develop a centralized, comprehensive and integrated system and database of remote sensing and geospatial applications, known as the Multisector Remote Sensing Application System (also known as GovRS-Apps). To date, 48 application systems have been developed and operated in more than 80 government agencies. Applications of GovRS-Apps by those agencies have contributed to the economy, security and societal well-being. GovRS-Apps optimize the use of remote sensing satellite images received directly at MYSA ground receiving stations in Temerloh, Pahang. Until now, MYSA has provided remote sensing satellite image services to government agencies through the GovRS-Apps amounting to 15,000 terabytes annually.   
Development of space industries  In 2022, the Government conducted a study to identify the availability and ability of local industries to be involved in space economic activities. This study also involved several engagement sessions with stakeholders to discuss issues and constraints and to provide suggestions to drive the growth of the local space industry. Based on the study, the Government is currently developing the National Space Industry Strategic Plan 2030 to set out the strategic goals and identify the focus areas and priorities of space technology industry activities in Malaysia. The strategic plan will set a clear and comprehensive direction to boost the country’s space industry and contribute to the country’s economic growth and achieve the target of space industries accounting for 1 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product by 20
The development of the strategic plan is in its final stage and will be launched early next year.   A/AC.105/1271/Add.2  7/11 V.22-26423   
Space science and technology awareness programme  The space science and technology awareness programme fosters the interest of students in space science and technology to ensure that the country has a sufficient supply of talent in the field of space technology in the future. MYSA implemented the programme with strategic partners from universities, non-governmental organizations and the private sector in the framework of the National Science Week every year since 20
The National Science Week is a national science initiative led by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation to foster interest in science, technology and innovation. This year, MYSA organized a total of nine activities and competitions with the participation of 34,650 students. Among the programmes that have been organized are Junior Rocket Tech Exploration, Code War Competition, “MySTEM@Space” and “From eye to space” at Langkawi National Observatory.  In conjunction with the World Space Week 2022, under the theme of “Space and sustainability”, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, through the National Planetarium, organized several interesting programmes for various walks of life, held from 4 to 10 October 20
Among the programmes and activities held were a short video competition on the theme of space sustainability organized by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation in Sabah, the National Planetarium webinar series and a virtual exhibition on space chivalry. The involvement of the National Planetarium’s strategic partners also contributed to raise public awareness of the importance of space science using the most modern means of delivery.   
International space cooperation Malaysia has been actively involved in, and participated in, many international and regional space initiatives, especially those involving human capital and related to the development of expertise, especially those organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs, the ASEAN Subcommittee on Space Technology and Application and the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum (APRSAF).  Under the Office for Outer Space Affairs capacity-building initiatives, Malaysia is currently implementing the second phase of the National Space Legislation Initiative and is in the midst of preparations to host the Malaysian technical advisory mission of 2022 under the United Nations Space Law for New Space Actors project. Malaysia also proposed to the ASEAN Subcommittee on Space Technology and Application a capacity-building programme involving a seminar for the exchange of expertise on space policy and space law. Under the APRSAF Space Frontier Working Group, Malaysia participated in Asian Herb in Space (AHiS) and the Kibo Robot Programming Challenge. Malaysia looks forward to further strengthening cooperation with the Office for Outer Space Affairs and other stakeholders in promoting access to programmes that can bring investment, research and development in the country.      Mali    [Original: French] [9 November 2022]     Introduction The outer space sector is growing constantly. Its uses and applications, in both northern and in southern countries, have become essential in improving the economic and social aspects of human life and in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. In addition to its importance in the areas of communications, navigation and media broadcasting, outer space has become an important element in such areas as research, environmental monitoring and protection, the improvement and management of natural resources, and disaster management. It is therefore important to pursue and step up space exploration, develop related applications and promote scientific research with a view to the peaceful and rational use of outer space.  A/AC.105/1271/Add.2   V.22-26423 8/11  Mali, like other developing countries, has been swift to take advantage of the potential of space technologies through international cooperation in this field. The satellite data used are acquired either directly from image reception centres (meteorological images) or through partners (providers) that are approved suppliers of various types of satellite images. This report presents key activities undertaken in Mali in 2022 in the area of space data use and the measures taken to reap the benefits of outer space more effectively and leverage them in implementing priority development actions.     Space activities undertaken in Mali in 2022 The activities carried out in Mali in 2022 are as follows:  • SPOT 6 satellite data (acquired in connection with the updating of maps of Mali at the 1:200,000 scale) were used in the implementation of a project to map the Malian part of the Senegal River basin at the 1:50,000 scale for the Organization for the Development of the Senegal River (OMVS).  • During the process of mapping the country’s medium-sized towns, QuickBird images were interpreted in order to extract landscape elements, which were complemented by observations on the ground. Maps of the towns of Kolokani, Siby and Sanankoro were completed.  • Under the Restructuring and Economic Recovery Project (PRRE), the interpretative results of the monitoring of works carried out to rebuild the fishing port in the town of Konna were confirmed through a new interpretation of GeoEye images. The objective of this exercise was to monitor reconstruction work continuously in certain areas that are difficult to reach owing to lack of security.  • With regard to meteorological activities, the National Meteorological Agency of Mali (Mali-Météo) continued to receive data from National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and METEOSAT satellites for observation, forecasting and the production of agrometeorological products.  • In connection with crop season monitoring by remote sensing, the Ministry of Rural Development, through the AGIR unit and in collaboration with the World Food Programme, is currently developing methods based on the use of satellite imagery for monitoring changes in agricultural areas in order to obtain information on areas that are difficult to reach owing in part to the security problems that have persisted in Mali since 20
• Other projects and programmes in Mali use satellite images in their daily activities, including geological mapping projects, forestry projects, diachronic studies to monitor land use change and desertification, climate change research projects and research on the spatio-temporal dynamics of malaria transmission in changing environments.     Future outer space activities As Mali does not yet have a national policy on outer space, its national policy on geographical information has focused on the use of satellite data to obtain up-to-date information, inter alia, for the purpose of updating cartographic data. Several other activities using space technology are planned, namely:  • The implementation of a master plan for bathymetry studies on a section of the Niger River in connection with the activities of the Niger River Basin Agency  • The use of satellite data to map flood risks in the metropolitan area of Bamako   • The geological mapping of western Mali at a scale of 1:50,000 using satellite imagery  A/AC.105/1271/Add.2  9/11 V.22-26423   • The use of high-resolution images to produce large-scale maps of border areas for the purpose of implementing cross-border development projects.     Conclusion and recommendation Although Mali does not have a formal framework for concerted action in the area of the use of outer space, several projects and programmes have been carried out and others are planned or in progress. This demonstrates the country’s interest, from an early stage, in the contribution of space technologies and innovations to the national development process. Starting in the 1980s, matters relating to the use of satellite imagery were handled by the National Committee for Remote Sensing, which brought together a number of technical bodies. Since the activities carried out within that coordination framework fell short of expectations, the entity was superseded by the National Committee for Geographic Information, one of the bodies established in 2002 to implement the National Policy on Geospatial Information. Given the important role of space science and technology in economic growth and sustainable development, it is important for Mali to adhere to international treaties and conventions in order to strengthen international cooperation in relation to outer space. This will facilitate rapid access to space observation products and provide opportunities for research and capacity-building among national actors and users in the processing and use of space data. Such cooperation might also make it possible to initiate research in Mali not only on the benefits of space observation but also on its impact on resources and the environment. Research on space debris, the safety of space objects with nuclear power sources on board and problems relating to their collision with space debris could also be addressed. Such work will contribute greatly to activities in the fields of energy, civil aviation and meteorology.     Portugal    [Original: English] [22 November 2022]  Portugal has in place several instruments for international cooperation, some of them involving other space agencies, higher education and research and development institutions, all having as the fundamental premise of cooperation towards the peaceful use of outer Space. More recent agreements also envisage sustainable uses of outer Space. Portugal, as part of the European Union, actively participates in the development of, and benefits from, the European Union space programme components (i.e. Copernicus, Galileo/EGNOS, etc.).  Portugal is a member of most international space or the space-related international organizations such as the European Space Agency (ESA), European Organization for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT), the European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere, organizations which are the backbone of the growth of the national space ecosystem. Portugal is also a founding member of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and the Square Kilometre Array Observatory and belongs to and participates in different international space-related groups such as the International Space Exploration Coordination Group, the Group on Earth Observations, the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites, the Global Spaceport Alliance and the European Commercial Spaceport Forum.      International cooperation in Earth observation Portugal as a member of the European Union contributes to the development and operation of Copernicus, the European Earth Observation Programme. Furthermore, A/AC.105/1271/Add.2   V.22-26423 10/11  as part of the Framework Partnership Agreement for Copernicus User Uptake, Portuguese entities collaborate with over 45 European partners to foster the uptake of Copernicus data at both the European and international levels, and takes specific actions with African countries.      Bilateral cooperation  The Portuguese Space Agency is actively establishing a set of bilateral agreements with a diverse range of counterparts, such as space agencies from other countries – many not within the European Union – and non-national educational and research entities. These memorandums of understanding aim to establish a specific framework for collaborative civil space activities between the participants on specific topics, programmes and/or projects of common interest, always in a manner that can contribute to the peaceful purposes of space, in full respect of the boundaries set by the international space treaties.  Some areas and activities that can be identified are the interchange of information, best practices, technology and personnel, the exchange of views on space policy or human capital development in the field of space and related areas, and cooperation in different areas such as Earth observation for monitoring climate and environment evolution, robotic exploration of space, microgravity, space traffic management, space debris, space weather and the development of related technology and instruments such as cost-effective sensors.  The Portuguese Space Agency has also been actively engaged in the creation and development of an international education programme dedicated to space business management, as well as cooperation for various space-related outreach, education and science activities in the fields of science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics (“STEAM” subjects).  Portugal hosted the 2022 edition of the Space Studies Program of the International Space University, in the city of Oeiras.  In 2022, the “Saison Croisee” was organized, an exchange of art, science and literature between Portugal and France. Under its umbrella, a set of activities dedicated to space education was jointly carried out by the National Centre for Space Studies (CNES) of France and the Portuguese Space Agency. A joint exhibition of Earth observation images provided from French and Portuguese satellites was organized in Guimarães, Portugal, and Bordeaux, France. The CNES Spatiobus, a small bus dedicated to space education, visited several cities in Portugal. Through a partnership, a joint team of Portuguese and French students was able to participate in the CNES parabolic flight campaign, performing a scientific parabolic flight. The Portuguese Space Agency has organized, for the third time, the European Rocketry Challenge (EuRoC), involving more than 20 European university teams and more than 500 students. It is expected that the competition will be open to countries from all around the world.     International cooperation in astronomy Portugal is a full member of the two intergovernmental organizations dedicated to astronomical research, namely, the European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere (ESO) and the Square Kilometre Array Observatory. ESO, with almost 60 years of existence and 16 Member States, has its headquarters (comprising the scientific, technical and administrative centre of the organization) in Garching near Munich, Germany. In Chile, ESO operates the Vitacura centre and three state-of-the-art observing sites: La Silla, Paranal and the Atacama Pathfinder Experiment (APEX). ESO represents its Member States in the Atacama Large Millimetre Array (ALMA), a large array of 66 antennas built and operated in partnership with North America and East Asia and in cooperation with the Republic of Chile. ESO is building its new flagship project, the 39-metre Extremely Large  A/AC.105/1271/Add.2  11/11 V.22-26423  Telescope, which will become “the world’s biggest eye on the sky” by the end of this decade. Portugal continues to fully support ESO and its programmes, with particular emphasis on the construction and the start of operations of the Extremely Large Telescope. At the national level, through the Portuguese Space Agency, Portugal is setting up a programme to further promote participation in the construction of astronomical instruments for the Very Large Telescope and for the future Extremely Large Telescope. The Square Kilometre Array Observatory is the second intergovernmental organization dedicated to astronomical research whose mission is to build and operate cutting-edge radio telescopes to transform our understanding of the universe and deliver benefits to society through global collaboration and innovation. The Square Kilometre Array Observatory has officially started its construction, which is expected to be finished by the end of this decade.  Portugal is one of the founding members of the Square Kilometre Array Observatory, and the Portuguese Space Agency is the national representative on the Square Kilometre Array Observatory Council. The Agency is actively coordinating the participation of Portuguese industry in the construction phase of the Square Kilometre Array Observatory and is supporting the growth of radio astronomy knowledge in the country to enhance the return to society of the benefits of investment in the Square Kilometre Array Observatory. Portugal has the status of observer at Astronet, a forum whose goal is to build a common scientific vision for all European astronomy. Along with its other thirteen members (including ESA, ESO and Square Kilometre Array Observatory), the Portuguese Space Agency aims to contribute to this common vision and strengthen its international cooperation initiatives to further develop astronomical research and space exploration in Portugal.     International cooperation in space exploration Portugal is a member of the International Space Exploration Coordination Group (ISECG). The Group combines the efforts of international space agencies and fosters their cooperation towards a common strategy for space exploration. The Portuguese Space Agency is part of the ISECG Emerging Space Agencies Working Group, to leverage existing knowledge and learn from established agencies while at the same time introducing new perspectives and possibilities with respect to space exploration for smaller players. The Agency is also part of the Analogues Working Group and the Commercialization Working Group. It is the Agency’s ambition to establish analogue activities in Portugal that are open to international collaboration within the next year. Portugal is one of the founding members of the ITU and has been a member of the ITU Council since 19
