United Nations  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 23 March 2023  Original: English   V.23-05359 (E)  *2305359*   Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Legal Subcommittee Sixty-second session Vienna, 20–31 March 2023         Draft report    I. Introduction     A. Opening of the session   
The Legal Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its sixty-second session at the United Nations Office at Vienna from 20 March to 31 March 2023 in a hybrid format (in person and online). The session was chaired by Nomfuneko Majaja (South Africa). 
The Subcommittee held […] meetings.    B. Adoption of the agenda   
At its 1034th meeting, on 20 March, the Subcommittee adopted the following agenda:   
Adoption of the agenda.   
Statement by the Chair.   
General exchange of views.   4 Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and  non-governmental organizations relating to space law.   
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space.   
Matters relating to:    (a) The definition and delimitation of outer space;    (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union.  
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space.   
Capacity-building in space law. A/AC.105/C.2/L.324   V.23-05359 2/3    
Future role and method of work of the Committee.   
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources.    
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee.   
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space.   
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management.   
General exchange of views on the application of international law to  small-satellite activities.   
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-third session.   
Report to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.    C. Attendance   
Representatives of the following […] States members of the Committee attended the session: Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Türkiye, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). 
At its 1034th meeting, on 20 March, the Subcommittee decided to admit Uganda as an observer, at its request, to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that doing so would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
Observers for the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat attended the session. 
The session was attended by representatives of the European Union, in its capacity as permanent observer of the Committee and in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 65/276 and 73/
The session was attended by the following intergovernmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee: Asia-Pacific Space Cooperation Organization (APSCO), European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere (ESO), European Space Agency (ESA), International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT), International Organization of Space Communications (Intersputnik) and Square Kilometre Array Observatory. 
The session was also attended by the following non-governmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee: European Space Policy  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324  3/3 V.23-05359  Institute, For All Moonkind, Hague Institute for Global Justice, International Astronautical Federation (IAF), International Astronomical Union (IAU), Ibero-American Institute of Aeronautic and Space Law and Commercial Aviation, International Association for the Advancement of Space Safety (IAASS), International Institute of Space Law (IISL), International Law Association, International Peace Alliance (Space), Moon Village Association, National Space Society, Open Lunar Foundation, Secure World Foundation, Space Generation Advisory Council (SGAC), University Space Engineering Consortium-Global (UNISEC-Global) and World Space Week Association. 
A list of the representatives of States and United Nations entities and other international organizations attending the session is contained in document A/AC.105/C.2/2023/INF/
The Subcommittee was informed by the Secretariat of the application for permanent observer status with the Committee submitted by the European Astronomical Society (A/AC.105/C.1/2022/CRP.38), which is to be considered by the Committee at its sixty-sixth session, in 20
D. Symposium   
In accordance with the agreement reached by the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at its forty-fourth session, in 2007 (A/AC.105/890, annex I, para. 24), and as agreed by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-first session, in 2022 (A/AC.105/1260, para. 243) and by the Committee at its sixty-fifth session, in 2022 (A/77/20, para. 282), a symposium was organized by IISL and the European Centre for Space Law (ECSL) on the topic of the legal aspects of dark and quiet skies on  28 March. 
The symposium was opened by Nomfuneko Majaja, Chair of the Legal Subcommittee, Kai-Uwe Schrogl, President of IISL and Sergio Marchisio, Chair of ECSL. After the opening, the following presentations were made to the Subcommittee:   (a) “Technical introduction”, by Andrew Williams of ESO and the IAU Centre for the Protection of Dark and Quiet Sky;   (b) “Astronomer’s perspective”, by Isidora Casas Del Valle Pacheco of SGAC;    (c) “Legal perspective”, by Rafael Moro-Aguilar of Florida International University;   (d) “Orbital slot and frequency management perspective”, by Véronique Glaude of ITU;   (e) “Non-governmental perspective”, by Ruskin Hartley of the International Dark Sky Association;   (f) “Governmental perspective”, by Fatima Alshamsi of the United Arab Emirates Space Agency. 
The Subcommittee noted with satisfaction that the symposium had contributed to the work of the Subcommittee and to raising awareness through its inclusive discussions on space activities.    E. Adoption of the report of the Legal Subcommittee    
