United Nations  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.11   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 28 March 2023  Original: English   V.23-05744 (E)  *2305744*   Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Legal Subcommittee Sixty-second session Vienna, 20–31 March 2023         Draft report      Addendum    XIV. Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-third session   
Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Subcommittee considered agenda item 15, entitled “Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-third session”, as a regular item on the agenda.  
The representative of the Russian Federation made a statement under agenda item 
During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Subcommittee heard the following presentations:   (a) “Memorandum of understanding: international cooperation on space safety standards”, by the observer for the International Association for the Advancement of Space Safety;    (b) “Clear and present danger: understanding risks to outstanding universal geoheritage values on Mars to guide proactive policy”, by the observer for SGAC. 
The Subcommittee agreed that the following items would be proposed to the Committee for inclusion in the agenda of the Subcommittee at its sixty-third session, pending discussion and consideration of the Subcommittee’s provisional agenda by the Committee at its sixty-sixth session, in 2023:      Regular items  
Adoption of the agenda. 
Election of the Chair.   
Statement by the Chair.   
General exchange of views. A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.11   V.23-05744 2/3    
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law.   
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space.   
Matters relating to:    (a) The definition and delimitation of outer space;    (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union.   
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space.   
Capacity-building in space law.   
Future role and method of work of the Committee.     Items under workplans    
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources.    (Work for 2024 as reflected in the multi-year workplan of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities (A/AC.105/1260, para. 206, and the appendix to annex II))     Single issues/items for discussion    
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee.   
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space.   
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management.   
General exchange of views on the application of international law to small-satellite activities.     New items    
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-fourth session. 
The view was expressed that, of the agenda for the current session, item 4, entitled “Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and  non-governmental organizations relating to space law”, item 7, entitled “National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space”, and item 8, entitled “Capacity-building in space law”, were informational in nature and that such information could be posted on the website of the Office of Outer Space Affairs in the form of working papers by delegations and links to relevant information resources on the Internet.  
The view was expressed that the Subcommittee should strictly adhere to the agreed agenda and intensify its consideration of priority issues that required legal regulation, primarily the topic of ensuring the long-term sustainability of space activities. 
The Subcommittee agreed that IISL and ECSL should again be invited to organize a symposium, to be held during the sixty-third session of the Subcommittee,  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.11  3/3 V.23-05744  with due account to be taken of equitable geographical and gender representation among the participants in order to reflect a broad range of opinions, and that the organizers should seek the cooperation of interested academic entities for that purpose. 
The Subcommittee noted that its sixty-third session had been tentatively scheduled to be held from 15 to 26 April 20
