United Nations  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.7   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 27 March 2023  Original: English   V.23-05587 (E) *2305587*   Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Legal Subcommittee Sixty-second session Vienna, 20–31 March 2023         Draft report     Addendum    VI. National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space   
Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Subcommittee considered agenda item 7, entitled “National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space”, as a regular item on its agenda. 
The representatives of Australia, Austria, China, Colombia, Finland, France, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under agenda item 
A statement was also made under the item by the observer from the Square Kilometre Array Observatory. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were made by the representatives of other member States. 
The Subcommittee had before it a conference room paper entitled “Schematic overview of national regulatory frameworks for space activities” (A/AC.105/C.2/2023/CRP.28).  
The Subcommittee heard a presentation entitled “Update on United States  In-Space Authorization and Supervision Policy development”, by the representative of the United States. 
The Subcommittee reiterated that it was important to take into account the rising number of non-governmental entities engaging in outer space activities, and the growing commercialization of space activities. To that end, States needed to ensure, through their national legal frameworks, that those activities were in compliance with the United Nations treaties on outer space, in order to ensure the sustainability of outer space activities.  
The Subcommittee noted that various activities had been taken by member States to review, strengthen, develop or draft national space laws and policies, as well as to reform or establish the governance of national space activities. In that connection, the Subcommittee also noted that those activities were aimed at improving the management and regulation of space activities, reorganizing  national space agencies, increasing the competitiveness of governmental and  non-governmental organizations in their space activities, increasing the involvement A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.7   V.23-05587 2/4  of academia in policy formulation, improving responses to challenges posed by the development of space activities, in particular those relating to the management of the space environment, ensuring robust and resilient communications infrastructure during emergencies, such as natural disasters, and improving the implementation of international obligations. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee (A/74/20, annex II) provided valuable and important recommendations to all States and that voluntary implementation of the Guidelines through various national legal instruments and space policies was important.  
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important to share and learn from the practices set out in national space legislation. In that connection, the Subcommittee welcomed the update made by the Secretariat to the schematic overview of national regulatory frameworks for space activities (A/AC.105/C.2/2023/CRP.28), which enabled States to gain an understanding of existing national regulatory frameworks, share experiences on national practices and exchange information on national legal frameworks. 
The Subcommittee took note of the efforts made in the framework of the  Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum (APRSAF) National Space Legislation Initiative for national implementation of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee (A/74/20, annex II), as well as for the involvement of private entities in space activities as regulated through the related national legislation. 
The Subcommittee agreed that it was important to continue to regularly exchange information on developments in the area of national space-related regulatory frameworks. In that regard, the Subcommittee encouraged member States to continue to submit to the secretariat the texts of their national space laws and regulations and to provide updates and inputs for the schematic overview of national regulatory frameworks for space activities.    VII. Capacity-building in space law   
Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Subcommittee considered agenda item 8, entitled “Capacity-building in space law”, as a regular item on its agenda. 
The representatives of Argentina, Austria, Azerbaijan, China, Colombia, France, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Thailand, Ukraine and the United Kingdom made statements under agenda item 
The representative of Pakistan made a statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. A statement was also made under the item by the observer for APSCO. During the general exchange of views, further statements relating to the item were made by representatives of other member States. 
The Subcommittee had before it a conference room paper containing the directory of education opportunities in space law (A/AC.105/C.1/2023/CRP.4). 
The Subcommittee heard the following presentations:   (a) “Capacity-building in space law: the space law essay competition”, by the representative of Austria;   (b) “Collaboration on the Cologne Commentary on Space Law and its recent translations”, by the representative of Germany;   (c) “Gennadiy Zhukov International Space Law Centre of the Department of International Law (Peoples’ Friendship University of Russia (RUDN University))”, by the representative of the Russian Federation;   (d) “Translation of the Cologne Commentary of Space Law into Spanish: an experience in capacity-building”, by the representative of Spain;  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.7  3/4 V.23-05587    (e) “Office for Outer Space Affairs/APSCO project for capacity-building in drafting national space legislation for APSCO member States”, by the observer for APSCO;    (f) “The 2023 Space Studies Programme in Brazil”, by the observers for IISL and ISU. 
The Subcommittee agreed that capacity-building, training and education in space law were of paramount importance to national, regional and international efforts to further develop the practical aspects of space science and technology, in particular in developing countries, and to increase knowledge of the legal framework within which space activities were carried out. That would encourage States to ratify the five United Nations treaties on outer space and support the implementation of those treaties and the establishment of national institutions and would make international space law more accessible and better known by all sectors of civil society. It was emphasized that the Subcommittee and the Office for Outer Space Affairs had an important role to play in that regard.  
The Subcommittee noted with appreciation that a number of national, regional and international efforts to build capacity in space law were being undertaken by governmental and non-governmental entities. Those efforts included encouraging universities to offer modules and seminars on space law; providing fellowships for graduate and postgraduate education in space law; providing financial and technical support for legal research; preparing dedicated studies, papers, textbooks and publications on space law; organizing workshops, seminars and other specialized activities to promote greater understanding of space law; supporting space law moot court competitions; supporting the participation of women, students and young professionals in regional and international activities relating to space law; providing for training and other opportunities to build experience, in particular through internships with space agencies; and supporting entities dedicated to the study of and research relating to space law in order to assist in the development of national space policies and legislative frameworks.  
The Subcommittee noted that some member States had provided financial assistance to enable students to attend the Manfred Lachs Space Law Moot Court Competition, held each year during the International Astronautical Congress.  
The Subcommittee expressed its appreciation for the Space Law for New Space Actors project of the Office of Outer Space Affairs, which provided support in enhancing capacity for the development of national space law and policy. In that context, it provided support for more than five technical advisory missions to emerging space-faring nations, as well as for the development of the Accessing Space Treaty Resources Online portal,1 through which information was shared to support capacity-building.  
Some delegations expressed the view that the Office for Outer Space Affairs should conduct targeted capacity-building, educational and training activities in space law and policy, building upon the programme of UN-SPIDER, with the objective of establishing a capacity-building platform, and underscored the importance of appropriate funding to enable the Office to provide valuable support to developing countries.  
The Subcommittee noted that the Office for Outer Space Affairs had updated the directory of educational opportunities in space law (A/AC.105/C.1/2023/CRP.4), including the information on available fellowships and scholarships, and agreed that the Office should continue to update the directory. In that connection, the Subcommittee invited member States to encourage contributions at the national level for the future updating of the directory. __________________  1 See https://astro.unoosa.org. A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.7   V.23-05587 4/4  
