V.99-84143 (E)United NationsA/AC.105/723General AssemblyDistr.: General18 May 1999Original: EnglishCommittee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer SpaceReport on the Eighth United Nations/European Space AgencyWorkshop on Basic Space Science: Scientific Exploration fromSpace, hosted by the Institute of Astronomy and Space Sciencesat Al al-Bayt University on behalf of theGovernment of Jordan(Mafraq, Jordan, 13-17 March 1999)ContentsParagraphsPageI.Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1-102A.Background and objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1-52B.Programme . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6-72C.Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8-103II.Observations and recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113III.Summary of presentations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12-174A.Basic space science and society . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .124B.The place of planet Earth in the universe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .134C.International cooperation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14-164D.Basic space science as a national asset . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .174IV.World space observatory: using science to stimulate sustainabledevelopment—an appraisal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18-355A.Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19-255B.The world space observatory: from concept to reality . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26-356A/AC.105/7232I. IntroductionA. Background and objectives1.In its resolution 37/90 of 10 December 1982, theGeneral Assembly decided, upon the recommendation of theSecond United Nations Conference on the Exploration andPeaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE 82), that the1United Nations Programme on Space Applications shouldpromote greater cooperation in space science and technologybetween industrialized and developing countries as well asamong developing countries.2.At its forty-first session, in 1998, the Committee on thePeaceful Uses of Outer Space took note of the programme ofworkshops, training courses and seminars proposed for1999, as outlined by the Expert on Space Applications (see2A/AC.105/693 and Corr.1, sect. I). Subsequently, theGeneral Assembly, in its resolution 53/45 of 3 December1998, endorsed the United Nations Programme on SpaceApplications for 1999.3.Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 53/45 and inaccordance with the recommendation of UNISPACE 82, theEighth United Nations/European Space Agency (ESA)Workshop on Basic Space Science: Scientific Explorationfrom Space was organized by the United Nations, ESA andthe Government of Jordan at the Institute of Astronomy andSpace Sciences at Al al-Bayt University, in Mafraq, Jordan,from 13 to 17 March 19
The workshop was co-organizedby the Austrian Space Agency, the Centre national d’étudesspatiales of France, the German Space Agency, theInternational Astronomical Union, the National Aeronauticsand Space Administration (NASA) of the United States ofAmerica and the Planetary Society. The Institute ofAstronomy and Space Sciences at Al al-Bayt Universityacted as host of the workshop on behalf of the Governmentof Jordan. The workshop continued the series of UnitedNations/ESA workshops on basic space science, organizedfor the benefit of developing countries in India in 1991 andSriLankain1996forAsiaandthePacific(seeA/AC.105/489 and A/AC.105/640); in Colombia and CostaRica in 1992 and Honduras in 1997 for Latin America andthe Caribbean (see A/AC.105/530 and A/AC.105/682); inNigeria in 1993 for Africa (see A/AC.105/560/Add.1); inEgypt in 1994 for western Asia (see A/AC.105/580); and inGermany in 1996 for Europe (see A/AC.105/657).4.The main objective of the workshop was to provide aforum to highlight recent scientific results obtained usingmajor space-based observatories in studies of the stars andthe far reaches of the universe. Such satellite missionsconstitute an impressive means of studying all aspects ofbasic space science from space as a complement to studiesbeing done from the ground. The question of the largevolumes of data generated by such missions was discussedin relation to changing research needs within the scientificcommunity, as was how access to the important databasesmaintained by major space agencies could be facilitated. Theimportance of data research and education based on spacemissions was discussed, together with the relevance of suchmissions to the needs of developing countries wishing toparticipate actively in the voyage of discovery through theuniverse. Future access to space by means, for example, ofa world space observatory was seen as crucial. Anticipatedlong-term developments will necessitate early planning andan examination of the capabilities associated with therunning of such an observatory.5.The present report was prepared for the Committee onthe Peaceful Uses of Outer Space at its forty-third sessionand the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at its thirty-seventh session. The proceedings of the workshop will bemade available later.B. Programme6.Attheopening of theworkshop, introductorystatements were made by representatives of Al al-BaytUniversity, ESA and the United Nations. The workshop wasdivided into scientific sessions and working group sessions,each focusing on a specific issue. Presentations by invitedspeakers describing the status of their findings in researchand education were followed by brief discussions. Sixtypapers were presented by invited speakers from bothdeveloping and industrialized countries.7.The workshop sessions focused on (a) the Sun, the1999 solar eclipse and exploration of the solar system;(b) astronomical satellite missions and the related databases;(c) small astronomical telescopes in education and researchand networking of optical and radio telescopes; and (d)astrophysics and cosmology. Poster sessions and workinggroup sessions provided an opportunity to focus on urgentproblems and projects in basic space science. The 120thanniversary of the birth of Albert Einstein on 14 March 1999was commemorated by a special lecture delivered by aneminent scholar from Yarmouk University in Irbid, Jordan,on the reception given to Einstein’s work in the Arab world. A/AC.105/7233constituted an important step in a broad-based educationalC. Attendance8.Researchers and educators from developing andindustrialized countries in all economic regions, but inparticular from western Asia, were invited by the UnitedNations and ESA to participate in the workshop. Participantsheldpositionsatuniversities,researchinstitutions,observatories, national space agencies and internationalorganizations and in private industry, and were involved inall the aspects of basic space science covered by theworkshop. Participants were selected on the basis of theirscientific background and their experience with programmesand projects in which basic space science played a leadingrole.9.Funds allocated by the United Nations, ESA and Al al-Bayt University were used to cover travel and other costs ofparticipants from developing countries. Some 95 specialistsand students of basic space science attended the workshop.10.The following 35 Member States were represented attheworkshop:Algeria,Armenia,Australia,Austria,Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Guatemala, Hungary,India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Japan, Jordan,Kuwait,Lebanon,Luxembourg,Mauritius,Mexico,Morocco, Nigeria, Palestine, Panama, Philippines, Poland,Romania, Russian Federation, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic,United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,United States of America, Uruguay and Zambia.II. Observations and recommendations11.Participants at the workshop noted with satisfaction:(a)The progress made in all regions in education inbasic space science and the heightened level of awareness ofits importance, especially as promoted by the series ofUnited Nations/ESA workshops at the national and regionallevels. The workshops had acted as an important stimulus toactivities aimed at achieving the long-term goals ofsustainable development, as highlighted in the reports of theprevious workshops (see para. 3 above and bibliography);(b)The efforts that had been made to make fullyoperational the 40-cm telescope at Al al-Bayt University inMafraq and the 31-m Baquaa radio telescope at theUniversity of Jordan in Amman, which will serve both foreducational purposes and in scientific research. Those effortsprocess in basic space science and represented a significantelement in multidisciplinary training to enable scientistsfrom developing countries to participate in basic spacescience projects at both regional and international levels;(c)The role of the regional centres for space scienceand technology education in addressing the problem ofemployment opportunities in basic space science in thedeveloping countries at the regional level. It was noted withconcern, however, that generally their work had receivedlimited attention at the national level. It was noted that thecreation of employment possibilities in basic space sciencewas a precondition to ensuring balanced development andavoiding the loss of investment in high-level training whenthose who had benefited from it were obliged to find work inother fields. The absence of national opportunities in basicspace science could introduce a destabilizing element in anotherwisewell-balancedprogrammeofsustainabledevelopment;(d)The progress made towards full participation bydeveloping countries in pioneering science projects and thecontinued efforts as regards graduate education exemplifiedby activities such as the Network of Oriental RoboticTelescopes (see A/AC.105/682, paras. 53-57) and theregional project for Mediterranean astronomy (MAN 2000),as well as the development of a radio telescope as part of alarger international interferometry network. In that context,it was also noted that the world space observatory (seeA/AC.105/682,paras.22-34)representedauniquepossibility for equal participation, at levels appropriate tothe capacity of each country, in advanced basic spacescience, for example, space astrophysics, with suchparticipation starting at the earliest stages of a project andincluding the process of discovery related to the scientificand cultural application of human curiosity to fundamentalquestions related to man’s place in the universe. Thefeasibility of the establishment of a world space observatorywould be explored further at the Third United NationsConference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of OuterSpace (UNISPACE III, A/CONF.184/3 and Corr.1, para.186).III. Summary of presentationsA. Basic space science and society12.Answering questions about the universe challengesastronomers, fascinates a broad national audience andA/AC.105/7234inspires young people to pursue careers in engineering,Station. International cooperation in building major facilitiesmathematics and science. Basic space science researchismosteffectivewhentheprojectdrawsontheassists nations, directly and indirectly, in achieving societalcomplementary capabilities of different nations, or when thegoals. For example, studies of the Sun, the planets and theproject would be too expensive for individual nations tostarshaveledtoexperimentaltechniquesfortheafford or if the international cooperative initiative itselfinvestigation of the Earth’s environment and to a broaderrepresents a major challenge for human beings to achieve aperspective from which to consider terrestrial environmentalparticular goal.concerns such as ozone depletion and the greenhouse effect.B. The place of planet Earth in the universe13.Basic space science addresses questions about theorigin and evolution of the planets, the stars and theuniverse. Over the course of the twentieth century it hasbecome evident that the climates and weather patterns of theplanets of the solar system are driven by many of the samephysical processes that determine the Earth’s environment;that stars form out of clouds of gas and eventually die eitherin quiet solitude or in spectacular explosions; that most ofthe common chemical elements are created in explosions ofstars; that stars group together in isolated galaxies; thatgalaxies and clusters of them stretch in sheets and filamentsas far as the largest telescopes can see; and that the universeitself came into existence in a violent explosion some 15billion years ago. Most amazingly, it has become clear thatthe laws of nature that humans have discovered on Earthapply without modification to the furthest reaches of theobservable universe.C. International cooperation14.The international basic space science community haslongshownleadershipininitiatinginternationalcollaborationandcooperation.Forumshavebeenestablished on a regular basis in which the basic spacescience community has publicized its scientific achievementsand the international character of astronomical study. Themost recent such initiative was the International Space Year(1992), with its elements Mission to Planet Earth andMission to the Universe. The scientific side of the latter wasrepresented by an international array of space satellitemissions operating during 19
Many other new satelliteshave been launched during the 1990s.15.Research in basic space science is an internationalenterprise. Recent examples of successful internationalcollaboration include the International Ultraviolet Explorer,the Hubble space telescope and the International Space16.The implementation of the recommendations of theworkshops organized since 1991 by the United Nations,through the Office for Outer Space Affairs of the Secretariat,and ESA has strengthened scientific infrastructure indeveloping countries. One of the proposals made byworkshop participants has been to set up a world spaceobservatory, a small satellite mission focusing on theultraviolet segment of the electromagnetic spectrum, withinternational participation, including that of developingcountries.D. Basic space science as a national asset17.Basic space science makes humanistic, educational andtechnical contributions to society. The most fundamentalcontribution of basic space science is that it provides modernanswers to questions about humanity’s place in the universe.Quantitative answers can now be found to questions aboutwhich ancient philosophers could only speculate. In additionto satisfying curiosity about the universe, basic space sciencenourishes a scientific outlook in society at large. Societyinvests in basic space science research and receives animportant dividend in the form of education, both formallythrough instruction in schools, colleges and universities, andmore informally through television programmes, popularbooks and magazines and planetarium presentations. Basicspace science introduces young people to quantitativereasoning and also contributes to areas of more immediatepracticality,includingindustry,medicineandtheunderstanding of the Earth’s environment.IV. World space observatory: usingscience to stimulate sustainabledevelopment—an appraisal18.One conclusion of the United Nations/ESA workshopson basic space science has been a realization of theimportance of the incorporation of basic space science intosustainable development plans. The rationale behind thismay be summarized as follows. The world space observatoryA/AC.105/7235has been proposed as an important and effective means ofis necessary for sustainable development. In hindsight, it isestablishing some of the necessary structures, not only forvery clear that the success of the industrial revolution wasthe benefit of the scientific community, but also for nationsbased on a fruitful interplay between the academicwishing to use space applications in the interest ofcommunity and the commercial sector of the population.accelerated and sustainable development. In the followingsection the nature of a generic world space observatory isdescribed and a possible implementation strategy proposed.A. Introduction19.The post-industrial times, approaching the beginningof the next millennium, are going to bring with them one ofthe most important challenges ever presented to the world atlarge. Although globalization is driving the current economicand sociological evolution of the industrialized world,regional cultural identity still represents an extraordinarilystrong force in the world. Events of the last decade haveshown dramatically the strength of such human forces, whichdefy quantitative analysis and the absence of properconsideration of them has been one of the main problemsassociatedwiththeimplementationofsustainabledevelopment programmes in the second half of the twentiethcentury. It is now widely recognized that the implementationof sustainable development schemes will have to be based onoriginal and innovative approaches to the developmentprocess, where sharing must be an integral part of thesupport given by the industrialized world.20.History has shown that development in a sociallypeaceful environment is extremely difficult to achieve andthat revolutionary changes, driven by intellectually advanced(and at times extreme) ideas, can become dominant. It mustthereforebeconcludedthatsustainable,culturallyappropriate and sociologically stable development can onlybe brought about when the educational processes requiredfor development lead to professional outlets for those whosemotivation for learning and development has a broadermeaning than arrival at an often locally defined socio-economic status.21.Asaconsequence of the current developmentstrategiesinmanydevelopingcountries,significantinvestment in education is not bearing the desired fruits. Thereason for this is closely associated with the fact thatparticipation in advanced science can only functionefficiently in the industrialized world. Consequently,investment in education often results only in the creation ofaconsumermarket,withoutthecreationoftheprofessionally well-formed, culturally and intellectuallyidentifiable and academically oriented cadre of scientists that22.It is remarkablethat, without the relatively smallfraction of the population driven by the pursuit of intellectualprogress, such a synergetic process cannot be sustained inthe context of its original socio-cultural climate. For therequired accelerated and sustainable development essentialfor all future projections of the world economy during thenext century to have any chance of success, quantum leaps indevelopment in various areas are essential. Many of the areasin which such advances can be feasible and practicable areassociated with space activities. In particular, spaceactivities will allow basic space scientists to share access toanduseofadvancedscientificdiscoverywithouteconomically crippling national investment and, at the sametime, will support education and encourage the developmentof infrastructure, which is beneficial to the whole population.Space activities can also supply mechanisms to retain themost highly trained people within the developing countriesthrough the creation of satisfactory career paths. In this waynational participation in the most advanced scientificactivities can be assured and nationals of developingcountries can become an active and integral part of theimportantgroupofinternationallyrecognizedandcompetitive associations of researchers in many fields.23.Over the centuries, astronomy has played a majorcultural role as the predecessor of all scientific andphilosophical development in basic space science. This isbecause it uses scientific method to approach a mostfundamental question, basic to many religious as well asnon-religious philosophical concepts: What is the place ofthe people of planet Earth in the universe?24.During the United Nations/ESA workshops on basicspace science, the concept of a world space observatory hasbeen recognized as an important tool to bring about thedesired quantum leaps in development identified above.25.The world space observatory embodies a twofold goal:(a)To create opportunities for participation at thefrontiers of science, on a sustainable basis and at the nationallevel, by all countries in the world without the need forexcessive investment. In so doing, the observatory will makean important contribution to the development of anacademically mature and competitive cadre in manydeveloping countries within 5 to 10 years after inception ofthe project by offering equal opportunities to astronomers allover the world;A/AC.105/7236(b)To support worldwide collaboration and toensure that the study of the mysteries of the universe fromspace can be maintained in a sustainable way by scientistsfrom all countries. This will then not only maintain thecuriosity-driven spirit of discovery that is an integral part ofsustainable development, but also make a reality in thescientific world of the visionary principle that space is theprovince of all mankind.B. The world space observatory: fromconcept to reality26.The world space observatory would consist of asatellite observatory in a context that extends beyond thenormal planning of the major space agencies. The newapproach incorporated into the planning and launching of theworld space observatory could result in significant costsavings as well as facilitate to a considerable decree theparticipationinthespacesciencesofcurrentlynon-“space-faring” nations. It would thus contribute tovigorous space science activity in the future.27.The model selected will constitute a missing elementin the range of tools available at present to the astrophysicalcommunity for the exploration of the universe, extendingfrom the near solar environment to the far distant phases ofevolution, when the basic building blocks of human life werebeing created. Even though the world space observatory has,in the first instance, been defined in the context of theultraviolet domain, the extension of the concept to otherareas that require operations based in space would be anobvious bonus that could have a major impact on the way inwhich research in basic space science is conductedworldwide.28.The scientific needs in the ultraviolet domain havebeen clearly expressed by the international astrophysicscommunity, as, for example, in the discussion at theESA/NASA conference held in Seville, Spain, in November19
