United Nations  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.9   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 28 March 2023  Original: English   V.23-05708 (E)     *2305708*   Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Legal Subcommittee Sixty-second session Vienna, 20–31 March 2023         Draft report      Addendum    VIII.  Future role and method of work of the Committee   
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Subcommittee considered agenda item 9, entitled “Future role and method of work of the Committee”. 
The representatives of Argentina, Canada, Chile, China, France, Germany, Indonesia, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), the Russian Federation, Ukraine and the United Kingdom made statements under agenda item 
A statement was made by the representative of Ghana on behalf of the Group of African States. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were made by representatives of other member States. 
The Subcommittee had before it a note by the Secretariat on the governance and method of work of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subsidiary bodies (A/AC.105/C.1/L.408). 
The Subcommittee noted that the Committee and its subcommittees served as a unique platform for international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was necessary to strengthen coordination between the Committee and other United Nations bodies, mechanisms and processes, and that the work related to outer space of each of those bodies should be carried out in accordance with its respective mandate.  
The view was expressed that transferring the discussion of important topics on the space agenda to parallel platforms would have a negative effect on the role of the Committee. 
The view was expressed that discussions of the open-ended working group on reducing space threats through norms, rules and principles of responsible behaviours, established pursuant to General Assembly resolution 76/231, and the agenda for safety and the long-term sustainability of outer space addressed by the Committee were distinct but complementary.  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.9   V.23-05708 2/3  
The view was expressed that it was necessary to reorganize the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space to make it a relevant international organization that would take care of the issue of space law in all aspects.  
The view was expressed that the transparency of the work of the Office for Outer Space Affairs should be enhanced given the Office’s growing programme of activities, including those using extrabudgetary resources.  
The view was expressed that the principle of consensus followed by the Committee allowed it to make universally applicable decisions.  
The view was expressed that it was important to retain the intergovernmental nature of the governance of outer space activities.  
The view was expressed that the private sector and the legal community should be included in the work of the Committee.  
Some delegations expressed the view that although non-governmental processes could benefit or supplement the work of the Committee in certain ways, such processes should not interfere with that work.  
The view was expressed that persistent efforts should be made to achieve more diversified and institutionalized capacity-building, including with the support of the private sector, that continued support should be given to all the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, and that those centres should enhance their exchanges and cooperation with one another.  
Some delegations expressed that view that the subcommittees should increase coordination, interaction and synergies on cross-cutting issues.  
Some delegations expressed the view that such cross-cutting issues might include the long-term sustainability of outer space activities, space debris, space traffic management, megaconstellations, space resources, lunar space exploration, and the prevention and resolution of conflicts arising from outer space activities.  
The view was expressed that the issue of the cybersecurity of space activities should be included on the agenda of the Subcommittee. 
The view was expressed that annual reports on national space activities were an important endeavour for transparency and capacity- and confidence-building and had the additional benefit of making it possible to reduce the length of statements delivered in the Subcommittee. 
Some delegations expressed that view that it was necessary to return to the full in-person format of sessions in order to benefit from three hours of interpretation per meeting.  
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important to maintain a hybrid format at future sessions.  
Some delegations expressed that view that the webcasting of plenary meetings should be continued. 
The view was expressed that a procedure to be followed in cases of force majeure should be established to ensure the continuity of the work of the Committee in crisis situations such as the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.  
Some delegations expressed the view that new items should be added to the agenda of the Committee and its subcommittees only when other items were removed.  
Some delegations expressed that view that consideration be given to merging agenda items 11, 13 and 14, on space debris, space traffic management and  small-satellite activities.  
Some delegations expressed that view that consideration be given to merging agenda items 5, 7 and 8 into a new agenda item entitled “Application and implementation of the five United Nations treaties on outer space”.   A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.9  3/3 V.23-05708  
Some delegations expressed the view that substantive items on the agenda should be scheduled consecutively rather than distributed throughout the session.  
The view was expressed that formal meetings of working groups could benefit from being both longer and fewer in number, and from being scheduled for the second week of the session, after the completion of informal meetings.  
Some delegations expressed that view that the volume of paper copies of  in-session documentation should be minimized and that only procedural documents, such as reports and resolutions, should be printed. 
