United Nations  A/AC.105/C.1/WGW/2023/L.1   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 14 February 2023  Original: English   V.23-02612 (E) *2302612*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space  Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Sixtieth session Vienna, 6–17 February 2023         Draft report      Annex I     Draft report of the Working Group of the Whole   
In accordance with paragraph 10 of General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, at its sixtieth session, reconvened its Working Group of the Whole. 
From 8 to 16 February 2023, the Working Group held four meetings, with Prakash Chauhan (India) as Chair. The Working Group also held two informal consultations, on 9 and 10 February 20
The Working Group considered the following items:   (a) Space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development;   (b) Future role and method of work of the Committee;   (c) Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
The Working Group had before it the note by the Secretariat on the governance and method of work of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subsidiary bodies (A/AC.105/C.1/L.408). 
The Working Group agreed that statements by delegations should be limited to 5 minutes and that technical presentations should be limited to 10 minutes.  
The Working Group noted a proposal that statements under agenda items other than the general exchange of views could be limited to three minutes, and noted that it could consider that proposal under the item on the future role and method of work of the Committee in the future. 
Some delegations expressed the view that statements exceeding the allocated time should be cut off after the time limit had been reached. 
The Working Group noted the benefits of the live webcasting of plenary meetings with interpretation into the six official languages of the United Nations. 
The Working Group requested the secretariat to provide the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space with an overview of the financial implications of A/AC.105/C.1/WGW/2023/L.1   V.23-02612 2/2  webcasting and remote simultaneous interpretation services, for its consideration at its sixty-sixth session, in June 2023, with a view to reaching a decision regarding the format of future sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important to maintain a hybrid format at future sessions.  
Some delegations stressed the importance of returning to in-person meetings, as the holding of hybrid meetings incurred significant additional costs for the secretariat. 
Some delegations expressed the view that consideration of the substantive issues on the agenda should be scheduled consecutively rather than distributed throughout the session, in order to provide a holistic understanding of the different opinions expressed on the same topic and also facilitate the face-to-face participation of experts.  
The view was expressed that flexibility should continue to be exercised in the timing of when consideration of agenda items is resumed.  
Some delegations expressed the view that statements by national delegations should be made before statements by permanent observers.  
Some delegations expressed the view that the practice of granting the floor to the coordinators of mechanisms, such as the Space Mission Planning Advisory Group, the International Asteroid Warning Network and the Space and Global Health Network, at the start of the consideration of agenda items should continue so that delegations were familiar with their reports before taking the floor.  
The view was expressed that a greater degree of informality and more free-flowing exchanges among experts were needed.  
The view was expressed that the proliferation of informal meetings made it challenging for small delegations to follow the session. 
Some delegations expressed the view that informal meetings should be held with interpretation services.  
The view was expressed that the provision of interpretation services to informal meetings would incur considerable costs. 
The view was expressed that the allocation of more time to working groups during meetings with interpretation would allow delegations to engage in a more inclusive and constructive manner.  
The view was expressed that States non-members of the Committee should comply with the deadline of submitting to the secretariat, one week prior to the opening of the session, their request to attend the Committee’s session as an observer.  
The Working Group requested the secretariat to inform States members of the Committee and international intergovernmental organizations with permanent observer status with the Committee about the procedure for voluntarily opting out of receiving paper copies of in-session documentation. 
The Working Group noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee would submit to the Committee its proposal for the draft provisional agenda for the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee, to be held in 20
The Working Group agreed that the draft provisional agenda was to be considered by the Subcommittee under item 18 of its agenda. 
