United Nations  A/AC.105/C.1/L.404   General Assembly  Distr.: General 6 December 2022  Original: English   V.22-27669 (E)    161222    191222 *2227669*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Sixtieth session Vienna, 6–17 February 2023 Item 12 of the provisional agenda* Long-term sustainability of outer space activities          Ideas for an information repository and for the agenda of the workshop to be held in 2024     Working paper by the Chair of the Working Group on the  Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities   
At the fifty-ninth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2022, the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities agreed to hold informal consultations, in a hybrid format, in November 2022 (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, para. 9).  
Accordingly, the informal consultations were arranged and were held from  15 to 17 November 20
The participants in the informal consultations requested that the Chair of the Working Group prepare, in all the official languages of the United Nations, a working paper for consideration at the sixtieth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, containing further ideas for a possible repository of guidelines-related information and for the agenda of the workshop to be held in 2024, taking into consideration the views expressed during the informal consultations. 
The present working paper contains ideas to be discussed further by the Working Group.     I. Ideas for an information repository   
As increasingly more information is shared on the elements included in the Working Group’s guiding framework (see A/74/20, para. 167, and A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix), the Working Group has begun to consider the added value of having an easily accessible and searchable repository of such information.  
Such a repository could assist those looking to implement the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (A/74/20, annex II) in their own jurisdictions, and could serve __________________  * A/AC.105/C.1/L.4
A/AC.105/C.1/L.404    2/3  as a tool for building transparency, confidence and capacity. It is envisioned as an open-source repository and could therefore also be an educational resource for those studying space-related disciplines.  
A dedicated repository could be developed and hosted on a website of the Office for Outer Space Affairs of the Secretariat and could include search and filter functionalities. Users would thus be able to easily filter content, for example, by specific guideline. The Working Group may consider which other functionalities would be most impactful. 
The submission of information would be voluntary and the information to be stored in the repository could include details identifying the submitter or could be submitted without a name attached, at the discretion of the submitter.  
The information shared should remain in the words or voice of the submitter. The Office for Outer Space Affairs would collect the submissions and make them available in the repository.  
The Working Group may wish to consider if the submissions should be translated into all the official languages of the United Nations. 
The Working Group may wish to consider existing repositories of information hosted by the Office for Outer Space Affairs, such as the collection of case studies on awareness-raising and capacity-building related to the implementation of the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities (see https://spacesustainability.unoosa.org/case_studies), the collection of national space laws and regulations (see www.unoosa.org/oosa/en/ourwork/spacelaw/nationalspace law/index.html, and note that a new related database with search and filter functionalities is currently being developed) and the compendium of space debris mitigation standards adopted by States and international organizations (see www.unoosa.org/oosa/en/ourwork/topics/space-debris/compendium.html).  
The Working Group may also wish to consider whether the content to be stored in the repository should be seen as a part of the Working Group’s output, supplementary to the thorough report that the Working Group is to produce.    II. Ideas for the agenda of the workshop to be held in 2024   
In accordance with its multi-year workplan (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix), the Working Group is to hold, within existing resources, a workshop on the margins of the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2024, with the agenda to be defined in 2023, on the topics in paragraphs 4 and 6 of the terms of reference, methods of work and workplan of the Working Group, with inputs from national governmental organizations, international intergovernmental organizations, non-governmental organizations, the private sector and academia. 
As currently envisioned, the workshop would be aimed at raising awareness of the long-term sustainability of outer space activities and supporting capacity-building. It would also represent an opportunity to collect views from entities that may not normally participate directly in the work of the Working Group. 
Each of the three elements of the guiding framework would be addressed during the workshop. 
The specific topics for the workshop could be:  (a) Understanding the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities, including experiences and lessons learned in the implementation of the adopted Guidelines;  A/AC.105/C.1/L.404  3/3    (b) Capacity-building needs, in particular among emerging space nations and developing countries, in relation to the implementation of the Guidelines in national programmes and in the private sector;  (c) Challenges to the long-term sustainability of outer space activities. 
The Working Group may decide to request that the full duration of the slot normally allocated for the holding of an industry symposium during the sessions of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee be allocated at the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee, in 2024, for the holding of the workshop. This would allow the workshop to benefit from interpretation services without adding to the already very full agenda of the Subcommittee. If the Working Group reaches consensus on such a request, a decision on the matter could be taken by the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at its sixtieth session, in 20
The workshop would include three panel discussions, each dedicated to one of the above-mentioned topics.  
Working Group members would be asked to nominate speakers and/or panellists for the workshop well in advance of the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee (likely before the end of October 2023). The Chair, with the support of the Secretariat, would use the nominations to create a final programme, with the aim of incorporating diverse views, taking into account both geographical and gender balance among speakers and panellists.  
The Office for Outer Space Affairs would issue direct invitations to the workshop participants, so that they would not need to be formally accredited in national delegations in order to participate. The views expressed during the workshop would be regarded as those of the panellists and other participants and not as formal positions of States. 
In order to make the best use of time, panellists would be requested to prepare, and share in advance of the workshop, short abstracts covering the topic on which they have been invited to speak. Given the time constraints, the aim would be for  presentations to be kept very short, so that the workshop could focus on active exchanges, including questions and answers. 
If there are more nominations for speakers and/or panellists than can be accommodated in the allotted time frame, those who are not assigned a formal speaking or presenting role would still be invited to attend the workshop and engage in the interactive discussions. They would also be invited to provide written contributions, which would be shared with the Working Group for further consideration and for possible inclusion in the report on the workshop.  
The Office for Outer Space Affairs could be requested to provide funding for participants, in particular from developing countries, to travel to Vienna in order to take part in the workshop in person, subject to the availability of existing resources of the Office. 
In line with the Working Group’s workplan, a report on the workshop is to be prepared by the Chair, with the support of the Secretariat, in 20
