United Nations  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.8   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 28 March 2023  Original: English   V.23-05705 (E) *2305705*   Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Legal Subcommittee Sixty-second session Vienna, 20–31 March 2023         Draft report      Addendum    X. General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee   
Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Legal Subcommittee considered agenda item 11, entitled “General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee”, as a single issue/item for discussion. 
The representatives of China, Belarus, France, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Malaysia, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), the Philippines, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian republic of) made statements under agenda item 
A statement was made by the representative of Pakistan on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Subcommittee had before it a conference room paper entitled “Compendium of space debris mitigation standards adopted by States and international organizations” (A/AC.105/C.2/2023/CRP.39). 
The Subcommittee heard a presentation entitled “Legal perspectives on orbital debris management”, by the observer for the National Space Society. 
The Subcommittee expressed concern at the increasing amount of space debris and noted that the endorsement by the General Assembly, in its resolution 62/217, of the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space had been an important step in providing all spacefaring nations with guidance on ways to mitigate the problem. 
The Subcommittee noted with satisfaction that some States were implementing space debris mitigation measures consistent with the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee, the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.8   V.23-05705 2/3  Outer Space Activities of the Committee (A/74/20, annex II), the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Inter-Agency Space Debris Coordination Committee, International Organization for Standardization standard ISO 24113:2019 (Space systems: space debris mitigation requirements) and/or ITU recommendation ITU-R S.1003 (Environmental protection of the geostationary-satellite orbit). 
The Subcommittee also noted with satisfaction that some States had taken measures to incorporate internationally recognized guidelines and standards related to space debris into the relevant provisions of their national legislation. The Subcommittee noted that some States had strengthened their national mechanisms governing space debris mitigation by nominating governmental supervisory authorities, involving academia and industry and developing new legislative norms, instructions, standards and frameworks. 
The Subcommittee noted with satisfaction that the compendium of space debris mitigation standards adopted by States and international organizations, developed at the initiative of Canada, Czechia and Germany, enabled all interested stakeholders to benefit from access to a comprehensive and structured set of current instruments and measures on space debris mitigation. The Subcommittee expressed its appreciation to the secretariat for updating and maintaining the compendium and continuing to make the latest version available on a dedicated web page. 
The Subcommittee agreed that States members of the Committee and international intergovernmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee should be invited to contribute further to the compendium of space debris mitigation standards adopted by States and international organizations by providing or updating information on any legislation or standards adopted with regard to space debris mitigation, using the template provided for that purpose. The Subcommittee also agreed that all other States Members of the United Nations should be invited to contribute to the compendium and encouraged States with such regulations or standards to provide information on them. 
The view was expressed that countries which already had national regulations related to space debris mitigation and remediation were encouraged to provide the information on their space debris mitigation standards to the secretariat of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, to serve as lessons learned for other countries that were developing their national mechanism. 
Some delegations expressed the view that international standard-setting efforts must be pursued and deepened on an ongoing basis and that international efforts must be complemented by national efforts.  
Some delegations expressed the view that the adoption of legally binding international instruments on the sustainable and safe conduct of space activities, including space debris, was one of the necessary mechanisms for solving the problem of space debris. 
The view was expressed that national policy and regulatory frameworks for space activities offered a key solution for limiting the generation of space debris. 
The view was expressed that because approaches to mitigating the problem of space debris were linked to evolving technologies, and given the cost-benefit  trade-offs of using them, it was not necessary to develop legally binding space debris mitigation standards at present. 
Some delegations expressed the view that, because of the risk of falling space debris, launching States were encouraged to provide advanced, proper, prompt and adequate notification to other States, especially developing countries, located in the drop zone of falling space debris, as applicable, to ensure that they were sufficiently prepared to mitigate and respond to such incidents. 
The view was expressed that, in low-Earth orbits, the problem of space debris could not be solved only on the basis of the voluntary application of relevant guidelines and that there was a need for additional measures, such as the removal of  A/AC.105/C.2/L.324/Add.8  3/3 V.23-05705  satellites from operational orbits, moving them to disposal orbits or effecting atmospheric re-entry. 
The view was expressed that the issue of space debris mitigation measures was closely connected to the issue of space traffic management, and it was recommended that space traffic management measures be taken also with a view to taking measures for space debris mitigation. 
The view was expressed that non-discriminatory and universally applicable transparency and confidence-building measures for space debris mitigation and remediation, including notifications of launch and post-mission disposal activities, were of great importance.  
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important for all Member States to register all space objects launched into outer space and that no object should be removed or eliminated without prior consent or authorization of the registering State. 
Some delegations expressed the view that interactive and mutual cooperation in sharing data, knowledge and experience played a key role in tackling the issue of space debris.  
The view was expressed that it was important to have mutual cooperation in sharing accurate data, knowledge and experiences as well as expanding capabilities, and in developing technical resources, modified prediction models and sophisticated facilities, provided that such effective collaboration took place under the umbrella of the Committee. 
The view was expressed that the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee provided several opportunities for further collaboration in sharing scientific and technical information with other nations under the auspices of the United Nations. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important to strengthen the capacity of developing countries for the voluntary implementation of space debris mitigation measures, and to strengthen capacity for detecting and responding to falling space debris. 
Some delegations expressed the view that intentionally or knowingly creating multiple pieces of debris was a key source of space debris, and States should refrain from such activities, bearing in mind General Assembly resolution 77/41 on destructive direct-ascent anti-satellite missile testing. 
