United Nations  A/AC.105/C.1/LTS/2023/L.1   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 14 February 2023  Original: English   V.23-02658 (E)     *2302658*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space  Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Sixtieth session Vienna, 6–17 February 2023         Draft report of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities   
In accordance with paragraph 10 of General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, at its sixtieth session, reconvened its Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities.  
The Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities held meetings from 7 to 15 February 2023, with Umamaheswaran R. (India) as Chair.  
The Working Group noted that, in addition to the formal meetings that it had held with the benefit of interpretation services during the present session, it had also held extensive informal consultations on the margins of the session.  
The Working Group recalled that it had also held informal consultations, in hybrid format, from 15 to 17 November 20
The Working Group had before it the documents listed in paragraph […] of the report of the Subcommittee on its sixtieth session. 
The Working Group noted the need to structure its work, giving equal importance and an equitable amount of time to each of the elements of its terms of reference (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix, paras. 4 and 6).  
The Working Group requested the Chair of the Working Group on the  Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities to coordinate with the Chair of the Committee and the secretariat to make arrangements for the Working Group to be able to meet during the sixty-sixth session of the Committee, in June 2023, making use of available interpretation services. 
The Working Group recalled that, in accordance with its multi-year workplan (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix), it was to hold, within existing resources, a workshop on the margins of the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2024, with the agenda to be defined in 2023, on the topics in paragraphs 4 and 6 of the terms of reference, methods of work and workplan of the Working Group, with inputs from national governmental organizations, international intergovernmental organizations, non-governmental organizations, the private sector and academia. In that connection, the Working Group agreed that the workshop would be aimed at raising awareness of the long-term sustainability of outer space activities and supporting capacity-building and that it would also represent an opportunity to A/AC.105/C.1/LTS/2023/L.1   V.23-02658 2/3  collect views from entities that might not normally participate directly in the work of the Working Group.  
The Working Group requested that the full duration of the slot normally allocated for the holding of an industry symposium during the sessions of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee be allocated, at the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee, in 2024, to the holding of the above-mentioned workshop. That would allow for the workshop to benefit from interpretation services. 
The Working Group agreed that the members of the Working Group would be asked to send suggestions for specific topics for the workshop to the Chair and the secretariat and that those could be discussed further by the Working Group during the Working Group’s meetings at the sixty-sixth session of the Committee, in June 20
The Working Group agreed that the members of the Working Group would be asked to nominate speakers and/or panellists for the workshop well in advance of the sixty-first session of the Subcommittee, with such nominations to be sent to the Chair and the secretariat no later than 9 October 20
The Working Group agreed that the Chair, with the support of the secretariat, would use the nominations to create a final programme for the workshop, with the aim of incorporating diverse views, taking into account both the geographical and gender balance among speakers and panellists.  
The Working Group agreed that the views expressed during the workshop would be regarded as those of the panellists and other participants and not as the formal positions of States and noted that networking opportunities would also form part of the workshop. 
The Working Group agreed that, in order to make the best use of time, panellists would be requested to prepare, and share in advance of the workshop, short abstracts covering the topic on which they had been invited to speak. The aim would be for presentations to be kept short so that the workshop could focus on active exchanges, including questions and answers.  
The Working Group agreed that if there were more nominations for speakers and/or panellists than could be accommodated in the allotted time frame, those who were not assigned a formal speaking or presenting role would still be invited to attend the workshop and engage in the interactive discussions. They would also be invited to provide written contributions, which would be shared with the Working Group for further consideration and for possible inclusion in the report on the workshop.  
The Working Group requested that the Subcommittee request the Office for Outer Space Affairs to explore providing funding for participants, in particular those from developing countries, to travel to Vienna to take part in the workshop in person, subject to the availability of existing resources of the Office. 
The Working Group agreed that as increasingly more information and views were shared by States Members of the United Nations and permanent observer organizations of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space on the elements included in the Working Group’s terms of reference (A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix, paras. 4 and 6), an easily accessible and searchable open-source repository of such information would be useful and could serve as a tool for building transparency, confidence and capacity. 
In that connection, the Working Group requested that the Subcommittee request the Office for Outer Space Affairs, within existing resources and/or making use of extrabudgetary contributions, to develop and host such an information repository on a website of the Office, which would include search and filter functions so that users would be able to easily find content, for example, by specific guideline. 
The Working Group invited voluntary contributions to the repository from States and from the permanent observer organizations to the Committee. Private  A/AC.105/C.1/LTS/2023/L.1  3/3 V.23-02658  entities and other non-governmental entities could also make submissions, with oversight by the respective State.  
The Working Group agreed that the information shared should remain in the words or voice of the submitter. The Office for Outer Space Affairs would collect the submissions and make them available in the repository in the original form and language of submission.  
The Working Group requested that shorter submissions or versions of submissions (i.e. texts up to a maximum of three pages per submission) continue to be translated by the secretariat into all the official languages of the United Nations. 
