United Nations  A/AC.105/C.1/L.406/Add.8   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 15 February 2023  Original: English   V.23-02716 (E) *2302716*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space  Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Sixtieth session Vienna, 6–17 February 2023         Draft report     Addendum     XIV. Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union   
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/121, the Subcommittee considered agenda item 16, entitled “Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union”, as a single issue/item for discussion. 
The representatives of China, India, Indonesia, the Netherlands, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States made statements under agenda item 
The observer for ITU also made a statement. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were made by representatives of other member States. 
In accordance with the invitation extended by the Subcommittee at its  fifty-ninth session, in 2022 (A/AC.105/1258, para. 252), the observer for ITU presented a report concerning the contribution of ITU to the peaceful uses of outer space, including the use of the geostationary satellite orbit and other orbits. In that connection, the Subcommittee took note with appreciation of the information provided in the annual report for 2022 of the Radiocommunication Bureau of ITU on the use of the geostationary satellite orbit and other orbits, as well as other documents referred to in conference room paper A/AC.105/C.1/2023/CRP.
The Subcommittee invited ITU to continue to submit reports to it. A/AC.105/C.1/L.406/Add.8   V.23-02716 2/2  
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit possessed a strategic and economic value for States, that it was a limited natural resource at risk of becoming saturated and that its use must therefore be rationalized and made available to all, under equitable conditions, regardless of States’ current technological capabilities, taking into particular consideration the needs of developing countries and their geographical location.  
Some delegations expressed the view that the Guidelines for the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities of the Committee (A/74/20, annex II) played a role in ensuring the equitable and effective use of the radio frequency spectrum and orbital zones used by satellites, although more efforts were needed. The delegations expressing that view also urged States to continue working towards effective implementation of the Guidelines.  
Some delegations expressed the view that it should be assessed whether there was a need to create specialized working groups and intergovernmental panels tasked with finding joint solutions to the challenges of the shared use of geostationary orbits. 
The view was expressed that given the scarcity of geostationary orbit positions and frequency resources, countries should strengthen cooperation for improved and efficient utilization of those resources and promote the use of limited frequency and geostationary orbit resources. 
The view was expressed that for some States, geostationary satellites would continue to be irreplaceable, and provision No. 11.49 of the ITU Radio Regulations had made the access for developing countries to orbit and spectrum resources of the geostationary orbit less equitable because some satellite operators took advantage of the ITU provisions to retain orbital slots for three years while the slots went in effect unoccupied. 
