United Nations  A/AC.105/C.2/L.323   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 1 February 2023  Original: English   V.23-01728 (E) *2301728*   Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space Legal Subcommittee Sixty-second session Vienna, 20–31 March 2023         Annotated provisional agenda     Provisional agenda   
Adoption of the agenda. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and  non-governmental organizations relating to space law. 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space. 
Matters relating to:   (a) The definition and delimitation of outer space;   (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. 
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. 
Capacity-building in space law. 
Future role and method of work of the Committee. 
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources. 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space. 
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management. 
General exchange of views on the application of international law to  small-satellite activities. A/AC.105/C.2/L.323   V.23-01728 2/8  
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-third session. 
Report to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.     Annotations1    
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and   non-governmental organizations relating to space law The Subcommittee will continue to consider the item on information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law (A/77/20, para. 280).   
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space In its resolution 77/121, the General Assembly agreed that the Legal Subcommittee, at its sixty-second session, should reconvene its Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space.    
Matters relating to:   (a) The definition and delimitation of outer space   (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary  orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union In its resolution 77/121, the General Assembly agreed that the Legal Subcommittee, at its sixty-second session, should reconvene its Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space. The Subcommittee will have before it a note by the Secretariat containing information received from States members of the Committee on national legislation and practice relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space (A/AC.105/865/Add.28), a note by the Secretariat containing replies from States Members of the United Nations and permanent observers of the Committee to questions on suborbital flights for scientific missions and/or for human transportation (A/AC.105/1039/Add.19), a note by the Secretariat containing views of States members and permanent observers of the Committee on the definition and delimitation of outer space (A/AC.105/1112/Add.12) and a note by the Secretariat containing information relating to any practical case  known to States Members of the United Nations and permanent observers of the  Committee that would warrant the definition and delimitation of outer space (A/AC.105/1226/Add.3).   
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space The Subcommittee will continue to consider the item on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space (A/77/20, para. 280).   
Capacity-building in space law The Subcommittee will continue to consider the item on capacity-building in space law (A/77/20, para. 280). The Subcommittee will have before it the report on the United Nations/Chile Conference on Space Law and Policy on the theme “Governance and legal perspectives on space activities in Earth orbit and beyond”, held online from 10 to 12 May 2022 (A/AC.105/1259).  __________________  1 The annotations are not part of the agenda to be adopted by the Subcommittee.  A/AC.105/C.2/L.323  3/8 V.23-01728   
Future role and method of work of the Committee The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, at its sixty-second session, agreed that a regular item entitled “Future role and methods of work of the Committee” was to be introduced on the agendas of both the Legal Subcommittee and the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee to allow for discussion of cross-cutting issues (A/74/20, para. 321 (h)).  The Subcommittee will continue to consider the item on the future role and method of work of the Committee (A/77/20, para. 280). The Subcommittee will have before it a note by the Secretariat on the governance and method of work of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies (A/AC.105/C.1/L.408), which was also made available to the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at its sixtieth session, in 20
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the  exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources The Subcommittee will consider the item on general exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources as an item under a workplan at its sixty-second session (A/77/20, para. 280). The Subcommittee will have before it a working paper submitted by Belgium, entitled “Contribution by Belgium to the General Exchange of Views on Potential Legal Models for Activities in the Exploration, Exploitation and Utilization of Space Resources” (A/AC.105/C.2/L.325). In its resolution 77/121, the General Assembly agreed that the Legal Subcommittee, at its sixty-second session, should reconvene its Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities. The Subcommittee will also have before it a summary by the Chair and Vice-Chair of views and contributions received on the mandate and purpose of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities (A/AC.105/C.2/120).   
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work  of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee The Subcommittee will consider the item on general exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, as a single issue/item for discussion on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-second session (A/77/20, para. 280).   
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations  instruments on outer space The Subcommittee will consider the item on general exchange of information on  non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space as a single issue/item for discussion on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-second session (A/77/20, para. 280).   
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management The Subcommittee will consider the item on general exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management as a single issue/item for discussion on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-second session (A/77/20, para. 280).  A/AC.105/C.2/L.323   V.23-01728 4/8   
General exchange of views on the application of international law to   small-satellite activities The Subcommittee will consider the item on general exchange of views on the application of international law to small-satellite activities as a single issue/item for discussion on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-second session (A/77/20, para. 280).   
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to  be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-third session At its sixty-second session, the Legal Subcommittee will submit to the Committee its proposal for the draft provisional agenda for the sixty-third session of the Subcommittee.      Symposium The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, at its sixty-fifth session, endorsed the agreement reached by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-first session that a symposium be held during the sixty-second session of the Subcommittee, in accordance with the report of the Legal Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1260). A symposium on the theme “Legal aspects of a dark and quiet sky” will be held in the afternoon of Tuesday, 28 March 20
A/AC.105/C.2/L.323  5/8 V.23-01728  Annex     Organization of work   
The work of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-second session has been scheduled without precedent for any future organization of work and taking into account the extraordinary situation caused by the ongoing global coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. 
Meetings with full interpretation services will be limited to two 2-hour meetings per day for the duration of the session.  
Statements should be limited to five minutes in duration. The Chair should remind delegations when one minute remains and should interrupt the delivery of the statement when five minutes have elapsed. The number of statements to be made at each meeting under item 3, entitled “General exchange of views”, may be limited, as necessary, in order to allow sufficient time for other agenda items to be considered as planned for each meeting. 
The Secretariat will upload statements that have been voluntarily submitted by States for uploading to the website of the Office for Outer Space Affairs in a timely manner. Upon submitting statements for interpretation purposes, delegations are to inform the Secretariat as to whether the statement may be uploaded to the website. 
The work of the Subcommittee has been scheduled so as to afford the working groups that will be convened under items 5, 6 (a) and 10 the maximum amount of time available.  
Owing to the limited meeting hours available with full interpretation services at the sixty-second session, technical presentations will be delivered without interpretation and should not exceed 10 minutes in duration. Delegations will be reminded when one minute remains, and the delivery of the presentation will be interrupted when 10 minutes have elapsed. Technical presentations should be closely linked to the items on the agenda of the Subcommittee and will be scheduled from 9.45 to 10.45 a.m. and from 5.15 to 6.15 p.m. Central European Time (CET). Such presentations may be delivered, without simultaneous interpretation, in any of the  six official languages of the United Nations.  
Within one week after the closure of the session, delegations of States members of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space may provide language-related comments on the reports of working groups and the report of the Subcommittee adopted during the session. 
An indicative schedule of work is provided below. It will be formally adopted at the first meeting of the Subcommittee. Any further changes to the indicative schedule may be decided by the Subcommittee no later than 48 hours before the start of the scheduled meeting.   A/AC.105/C.2/L.323   V.23-01728 6/8    Indicative schedule of worka  Date Morning (11 a.m.–1 p.m. CET) Afternoon (3–5 p.m. CET)    Week of 20–24 March 2023 Monday,  20 March Item 
Adoption of the agenda Item 
Statement by the Chair Item 
General exchange of views Item 
General exchange of views  Item 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer spaceb Item 
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resourcesc Meeting of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space Tuesday,  21 March Item 
General exchange of views  Item 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer spaceb Item 
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resourcesc Meeting of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities Item 
General exchange of views  Item 6 (a). The definition and delimitation of outer spaced Item 6 (b). The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit Item 
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management Meeting of the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space Wednesday,  22 March Item 
General exchange of views Item 6 (a). The definition and delimitation of outer spaced Item 6 (b). The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit Item 
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management Meeting of the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space Item 
General exchange of views Item 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and  non-governmental organizations relating to space law Item 
General exchange of views on the application of international law to small-satellite activities  Meeting of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space Thursday,  23 March Item 
General exchange of views Item 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and  non-governmental organizations relating to space law Item 
General exchange of views on the application of international law to  small-satellite activities  Meeting of the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space Item 
General exchange of views  Item 
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space  Item 
Capacity-building in space law Meeting of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities  A/AC.105/C.2/L.323  7/8 V.23-01728  Date Morning (11 a.m.–1 p.m. CET) Afternoon (3–5 p.m. CET)    Friday,  24 March Item 
General exchange of views Item 
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space  Item 
Capacity-building in space law Meeting of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space Item 
General exchange of views  Item 
Future role and method of work of the Committee Item 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Meeting of the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space Week of 27–31 March 2023 Monday,  27 March Item 
General exchange of views Item 
Future role and method of work of the Committee Item 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Meeting of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities Item 
General exchange of views Item 
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space Item 
Proposals to the Committee for new items to be considered by the Subcommittee Meeting of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space Tuesday,  28 March Item 
General exchange of views Item 
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space Item 
Proposals to the Committee for  new items to be considered by the Subcommittee Meeting of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities Symposium organized by the International Institute of Space Law and the European Centre for Space Law on the theme “Legal aspects of a dark and quiet sky” Wednesday,  29 March Adoption of the report of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space Adoption of the report of the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space Adoption of the report of the Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities Thursday,  30 March Item 
Report to the Committee Item 
Report to the Committee Friday,  31 March Item 
Report to the Committee Item 
Report to the Committee   a At its thirty-eighth session, in 1995, the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space agreed that the practice of allocating specific agenda items to particular meetings at a session should be ended and that, to assist in their planning, member States would continue to be provided with an indicative schedule of work, which would be without prejudice to the actual timing of consideration of specific agenda items (A/50/20, para. 169 (b)). A/AC.105/C.2/L.323   V.23-01728 8/8   b The Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space, to be reconvened in accordance with paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 77/121, will meet during the session to consider item 
The Legal Subcommittee will resume its consideration of item 5 on Wednesday, 29 March, in order to adopt the report of the Working Group.  с The Working Group on Legal Aspects of Space Resource Activities, to be reconvened in accordance with paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 77/121, will meet during the session to consider item 
