United Nations  A/AC.105/L.332   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 2 June 2023  Original: English   V.23-10437 (E) *2310437*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space Sixty-sixth session Vienna, 31 May–9 June 2023         Draft report     Chapter I    I. Introduction   
The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its sixty-sixth session in Vienna from 31 May to 9 June 20
The officers of the Committee were as follows:   Chair     Omran Sharaf (United Arab Emirates)   First Vice-Chair    Carolina Rêgo Costa (Portugal)   Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur Oleg Ventskovsky (Ukraine) 
At the 802nd meeting of the Committee, on 31 May, following the vacant position of First Vice-Chair for 2023, Carolina Rêgo Costa (Portugal) was elected First Vice-Chair of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.    A. Meetings of subsidiary bodies   
The Scientific and Technical Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its sixtieth session in Vienna from 6 to 17 February 2023, in a hybrid format, with Juan Francisco Facetti (Paraguay) as Chair. The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/1279). 
The Legal Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its sixty-second session in Vienna from 20 March to 31 March 2023, also in a hybrid format, with Nomfuneko Majaja (South Africa) as Chair. The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/1285).    B. Adoption of the agenda    
At its 802nd meeting, on 31 May, the Committee adopted the following agenda:   
Opening of the session.   
Adoption of the agenda.    
Statement by the Chair. A/AC.105/L.332   V.23-10437 2/4    
General exchange of views.   
Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes.   
Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixtieth session.   
Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty-second session.   
Space and sustainable development.   
Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status.   
Space and water.   
Space and climate change.   
Use of space technology in the United Nations system.   
Future role and method of work of the Committee.   
Space exploration and innovation.   
“Space2030” Agenda.   
Other matters.   
Report of the Committee to the General Assembly.    C. Membership   
In accordance with General Assembly resolutions 1472 A (XIV), 1721 E (XVI), 3182 (XXVIII), 32/196 B, 35/16, 49/33, 56/51, 57/116, 59/116, 62/217, 65/97, 66/71, 68/75, 69/85, 71/90, 72/77, 74/82, 76/76, 77/121 and decisions 45/315, 67/412, 67/528, 70/518 and 73/517, the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was composed of the following 102 States: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Türkiye, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam.    D. Attendance   
Representatives of the following […] States members of the Committee attended the session: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechia, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab  A/AC.105/L.332  3/4 V.23-10437  Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Türkiye, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States, Uruguay, Uzbekistan and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of). 
The session was attended by representatives of the European Union, in its capacity as permanent observer of the Committee and in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 65/276 and 73/
At its 802nd meeting, the Committee decided to admit the Holy See as an observer, at its request, to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that doing so would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
At its 802nd meeting, the Committee decided to admit the Sovereign Order of Malta as an observer, at its request, to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that doing so would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
Observers for the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, the International Telecommunications Union and the Office for Disarmament Affairs of the Secretariat attended the session.  
The session was attended by observers for the following intergovernmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee: Asia-Pacific Space Cooperation Organization (APSCO), Committee on Earth Observation Satellites (CEOS), European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere (ESO), European Space Agency (ESA), European Telecommunications Satellite Organization, International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT), International Organization of Space Communications (Intersputnik) and Square Kilometre Array Observatory. 
The session was also attended by observers for the following non-governmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee: African Association of Remote Sensing of the Environment (AARSE), CANEUS International, European Space Policy Institute, For All Moonkind, Inter-Islamic Network on Space Sciences and Technology (ISNET), International Academy of Astronautics (IAA), International Astronautical Federation (IAF), International Astronomical Union (IAU), International Institute of Space Law (IISL), Moon Village Association, National Space Society (NSS), Open Lunar Foundation, Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water (PSIPW), Secure World Foundation, Space Generation Advisory Council (SGAC), University Space Engineering Consortium-Global (UNISEC-Global) and World Space Week Association.  
At its 802nd meeting, the Committee decided to admit the European Astronomical Society and Three Country-Trusted Broker as observers, at their request, to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that doing so would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
A list of representatives of States members of the Committee, United Nations entities and other organizations attending the session is contained in A/AC.105/2023/INF/
E. General statements   [To be submitted in a separate addendum]   A/AC.105/L.332   V.23-10437 4/4   F. Adoption of the report of the Committee   
