United Nations  A/AC.105/C.1/L.406/Add.9   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 15 February 2023  Original: English   V.23-02743 (E)     *2302743*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space  Scientific and Technical Subcommittee Sixtieth session Vienna, 6–17 February 2023         Draft report     Addendum    XVI. Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee   
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/121 and the decision of the Subcommittee at its 975th meeting, on 6 February 2023, the Subcommittee considered agenda item 18, entitled “Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee”. 
The representatives of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States made statements under the agenda item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were made by representatives of other member States. 
The Subcommittee noted that the Secretariat had scheduled its sixty-first session to be held from 5 to 16 February 20
The Subcommittee agreed that the following items would be proposed to the Committee for inclusion in the agenda of the Subcommittee at its sixty-first session:  
Adoption of the agenda.  
Election of the Chair.  
Statement by the Chair.  
General exchange of views and introduction of reports submitted on national activities.  
United Nations Programme on Space Applications.  
Space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development.  
Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment.  
Space debris. A/AC.105/C.1/L.406/Add.9   V.23-02743 2/3   
Space-system-based disaster management support.  
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems.  
Space weather.  
Near-Earth objects.  
Long-term sustainability of outer space activities. (Work for 2024 as reflected in the multi-year workplan of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities (see  para. […] above and A/AC.105/1258, annex II, appendix, para. 18))  
Future role and method of work of the Committee.  
Space and global health.  
Use of nuclear power sources in outer space. (Work for 2024 as reflected in the new multi-year workplan of the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space (see para. […] above and annex […], para. 8))  
Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union.   (Single issue/item for discussion)  
Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-second session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee.  
Report to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the item entitled “General exchange of views on dark and quiet skies for science and society” that had been considered as a single-issue agenda item at the present session should remain on the agenda of the Subcommittee for the next three years and that a dedicated expert group should be established under the agenda item to promote awareness, provide guidance and enable communication and cooperation between member States and stakeholders with respect to the impact of satellite constellations on astronomy.  
The view was expressed that matters related to the item entitled “General exchange of views on dark and quiet skies for science and society” should be addressed under the existing item on the long-term sustainability of outer space activities and by the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities. 
The view was expressed that before adding a new item to the agenda, there should be a comprehensive assessment of the whole agenda of the Subcommittee.  
Some delegations expressed the view that the current agenda items entitled “United Nations Programme on Space Applications”, “Space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development” and “Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment” could be consolidated into one agenda item entitled “Space for sustainable development and space applications”. 
Some delegations expressed the view that an expert group on the subject of dark and quiet skies for science and society should be established and that it should report to the Subcommittee under the item on space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development.   A/AC.105/C.1/L.406/Add.9  3/3 V.23-02743  
The view was expressed that the decision on how to modify the agenda for the sixty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee should be deferred until the sixty-sixth session of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space.  
