United Nations  A/AC.105/L.332/Add.12   General Assembly  Distr.: Limited 8 June 2023  Original: English   V.23-10932 (E)     *2310932*   Committee on the Peaceful  Uses of Outer Space Sixty-sixth session Vienna, 31 May–9 June 2023         Draft report     Addendum     Chapter II     Recommendations and decisions    I. Future role and method of work of the Committee   
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Future role and method of work of the Committee”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/1
The representatives of Algeria, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico, Netherlands (Kingdom of the), New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. The representative of South Africa made a statement on behalf of the Group of African States. The observers for the International Academy of Astronautics and the Secure World Foundation also made statements. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States.  
The Committee had before it the following:   (a) Note by the Secretariat on the governance and method of work of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subsidiary bodies (A/AC.105/C.1/L.408);   (b) Conference room paper entitled “Review of the financial and other implications of webcasting and remote simultaneous interpretation services for sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees”, prepared by the Secretariat (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.16);   (c) Conference room paper entitled “Review of management of printed documents at sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees”, prepared by the Secretariat (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.20); A/AC.105/L.332/Add.12   V.23-10932 2/5    (d) Working paper entitled “Modifying the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space”, submitted by the Russian Federation (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.24). 
The Committee heard a presentation entitled “IAA activities in support of future agendas of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subcommittees”, by the observer for the International Academy of Astronautics. 
The Committee recalled the deliberations on the item as reflected in the report of the Committee on its sixty-fifth session (A/77/20, paras. 281–300), the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixtieth session (A/AC.105/1279, paras. 209–232) and the report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty-second session (A/AC.105/1285, paras. 123–156). 
The Committee noted that the Committee and its subcommittees served as a unique platform for international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee could benefit from the latest research, practical experience and scientific practice through wider engagement with non-State actors, including the private sector and the scientific community. 
Some delegations expressed the view that although non-governmental processes could benefit or supplement the work of the Committee in certain ways, such processes should not interfere with that work. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee should pay more attention to new challenges and new situations so as to promote global governance of outer space and the progressive development of space law more effectively.  
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee should include  cross-cutting issues both in the agenda of the Committee and in the agendas of its two subcommittees.  
Some delegations expressed the view that new items should be added to the agenda of the Committee and its subcommittees only when other items were removed.  
The view was expressed that a procedure to be followed in cases of force majeure should be established in order to ensure the continuity of the work of the Committee in crisis situations such as that brought about by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic.  
The view was expressed that the annotated provisional agenda and other official documents should be published well in advance of each session.  
The view was expressed that decision-making points and the schedule for the consideration of those decisions should be made known to delegations in advance.  
The Committee expressed its satisfaction with the secretariat’s efforts to reduce the volume of printed documentation and its work to make available live webcasts of and scheduling information relating to technical presentations, informal meetings of working groups and side events, as well as lists of speakers. 
The Committee reached agreement on the following:    (a) Future sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees are to be held in in-person format and regular-budget mandated meetings are to be webcast on United Nations WebTV, at no cost to the Office for Outer Space Affairs;   (b) With the exception of the item on the general exchange of views, all agenda items of the Committee and its subcommittees are be considered in sequential order, while the holding of working group meetings should not be precluded;   (c) For all agenda items, representatives of member States are the first to be given the opportunity to speak under an agenda item, and only then should the floor be given to representatives of observer organizations;  A/AC.105/L.332/Add.12  3/5 V.23-10932    (d) In order to encourage informal discussions and enhance exchanges among member States, the secretariat should, when practicable, seek measures to avoid scheduling working group informal meetings concurrently with plenary meetings and instead utilize designated time slots before the morning meetings and during the lunch break for informal meetings;   (e) The secretariat should, when practicable and when formal plenary meetings conclude earlier than scheduled, make interpretation services available for informal discussions. These measures are aimed at supporting inclusive and productive engagement during informal discussions;   (f) Member States and international intergovernmental organizations with permanent observer status with the Committee are requested to indicate in their accreditation submission if they wish to receive conference room papers in hard copy, to be placed in their respective pigeonholes. 
The Committee agreed that member States should actively consider the streamlining of the Committee’s agenda and hold consultations during the sessions of its subcommittees in 2024 under the agenda item on the future role and method of work of the Committee. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the agenda of the Committee could be streamlined by merging the items “Space and water” and “Space and climate change”, or the items “Future role and method of work of the Committee” and “Other matters”.     L. Other matters   
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Other matters”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 77/1
The representatives of Iran (Islamic Republic of) and Switzerland made statements under the agenda item. A statement was also made by the representative of Czechia on behalf of the Eastern European States. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States.    
Composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the  period 2024–2025  
The Committee recalled that the General Assembly, in paragraph 11 of its resolution 58/89, had endorsed the agreement reached by the Committee on the future composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies (A/58/20, annex II, paras. 5–9), on the basis of the measures relating to the working methods of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies (see A/52/20, annex I, and A/58/20,  annex II, appendix III), which had previously been endorsed by the Assembly in its resolution 52/
The Committee further recalled that, in accordance with the measures relating to the future composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies, the Committee should reach agreement at its sixty-sixth session on all officers of the bureaux for the period 2024–20
The Committee noted that the African States had endorsed the candidatures of Sherif Mohamed Sedky (Egypt) and Rafiq Akram (Morocco) for the office of Chair of the Committee for 2024 and 2025, respectively (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.25). 
The Committee noted that the Western European and other States had endorsed the candidature of Santiago Ripol Carulla (Spain) for the office of Chair of the Legal Subcommittee for the period 2024–2025 (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.14). 
The Committee urged the Asia-Pacific States, the Eastern European States and the Latin American and Caribbean States to nominate their candidates for the offices A/AC.105/L.332/Add.12   V.23-10932 4/5  of Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur of the Committee, Chair of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and First Vice-Chair of the Committee, respectively, for the period 2024–2025, before the consideration by the Fourth Committee of the draft resolution on international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space at the seventy-eighth session of the General Assembly, in 20
Observer status  
With regard to the applications of non-governmental organizations for the status of permanent observer with the Committee, the Committee recalled its agreement at its fifty-third session, in 2010 (A/65/20, para. 311), that observer status would be granted to non-governmental organizations on a provisional basis, for a period of three years, pending information on the status of their application for consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, that the provisional observer status could be extended for an additional year, if necessary, and that it would grant permanent observer status to such non-governmental organizations upon confirmation of their consultative status with the Council. 
The Committee took note of the application of the European Astronomical Society (EAS) for permanent observer status with the Committee. The application and the relevant correspondence were before the Committee in conference room paper A/AC.105/2023/CRP.
The Committee decided to grant the European Astronomical Society (EAS) the status of observer, on a provisional basis, for a period of three years, pending information on the status of its application for consultative status with the Economic and Social Council. 
The Committee took note of the application of Three Country – Trusted Broker (TCTB) for permanent observer status with the Committee. The application and the relevant correspondence were before the Committee in conference room paper A/AC.105/2023/CRP.
The Committee decided to grant Three Country – Trusted Broker (TCTB) the status of observer, on a provisional basis, for a period of three years, pending information on the status of its application for consultative status with the Economic and Social Council.   
Programme 5, “Peaceful uses of outer space”: proposed programme plan for the  period 2024 and programme performance for 2022 
The Committee had before it the following:   (a) Conference room paper entitled “Programme 5, ‘Peaceful uses of outer space’: proposed programme plan for the period 2024” (A/AC.105/2023/CRP.3);   (b) Proposed programme budget for 2024 (A/78/6 (Sect. 6)). 
The Committee agreed on the proposed programme plan.   
Other matters 
The view was expressed that the Committee played an essential role in the overall governance of space activities, in particular in relation to the viability and safety of space activities, as reaffirmed by its member States in 2021 through the adoption of the “Space2030” Agenda, and that it was essential that the Committee consider with all due attention the proposals made in the Secretary-General’s policy brief entitled “For all humanity – the future of outer space governance”.   
Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-seventh session of the Committee 
The Committee recommended that the following items should be considered at its sixty-seventh session, in 2024: (1) Opening of the session.  A/AC.105/L.332/Add.12  5/5 V.23-10932  (2) Election of the Chair. (3) Adoption of the agenda. (4) Statement by the Chair. (5) General exchange of views. (6) Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. (7) Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its sixty-first session. (8) Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixty-third session. (9) Space and sustainable development. (10) Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status. (11) Space and water. (12) Space and climate change. (13) Use of space technology in the United Nations system. (14) Future role and method of work of the Committee. (15) Space exploration and innovation. (16) “Space2030” Agenda. (17) Other matters. (18) Report of the Committee to the General Assembly.    M. Schedule of work of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies   
