Looking up, I see the immensity of the cosmos; bowing my head, I look at the multitude of the world. The gaze flies, the heart expands, the joy of the senses can reach its peak, & indeed, this is true happiness.
Cristoforetti's profile shows that she was born in Milan, Italy in 1977 and became an official astronaut of the European Space Agency (ESA) in 2009. She was also the first Italian female astronaut in space.
Cristoforetti can speak Italian, English, German, French, Russian and Chinese. She is also a member of a liaison group with China from the ESA, whose task is to maintain contact with Chinese peers to determine and implement cooperation plans among astronauts.
Cristoforetti visited China in 2017 and participated in a maritime survival drill in the Yellow Sea together with Chinese astronauts, which was also the first time Chinese and foreign astronauts held joint training in China.
I have read about it too and the Italian astronaut certainly has my like. Exploring the universe has been mankind’s dream since ancient times. Thanks to scientific and technological progress, reaching beyond the moon has become a reality. Humanity will continue to benefit from the noble endeavor of exploration and peaceful use of space.
Just a few days ago we also saw a video clip shared online showing the magnificence of our blue planet Earth seen from China’s space station. Countries around the world can and need to work together to look after the planet we all call home and make the world a better place for all.
Nextant Aerospace Appoints Jet Aviation Singapore as New Authorized Service Center for Nextant 400XT
The contract, which was signed at ABACE, will see Jet Aviation Singapore provide maintenance services for Nextant’s growing fleet of 400XTs in the region. As the company’s exclusive authorized service center in Singapore for Southeast Asia, Jet Aviation Singapore will become a core element of Nextant’s global network of owned and authorized service centers.
Nextant entered the Asian market in August 2012 and is continuing to see strong interest in the region due to the aircraft’s unique combination of performance, comfort and value. The Nextant 400XT offers an impressive 2,003 nautical mile (3,709 km) range, which means customers can fly from Singapore to as far west as Mumbai, India, or as far north as Shanghai, China without needing a refueling stop.
The aircraft sells for roughly half the price of its competitors with significantly lower operating costs. Low maintenance costs are backed by a full factory warranty, a global network of owned and authorized service centers and the world’s largest inventory of rotable parts for BE40 series aircraft which includes the 400XT.
Globally, the Nextant Aerospace value proposition has proven hugely attractive, securing sales of over $100 million since late 2011. Nextant currently has a sales backlog valued in excess of $175 million.
Jet Aviation is a global leader in business aviation with two maintenance centers in Asia; one based in Singapore and the other in Hong Kong, where it also operates an aircraft management and charter company. The Singapore Service Center provides scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, aircraft repair, defect troubleshooting and rectifications, aircraft modification, AOG services, refurbishment, avionics modification and exterior painting services. It recently announced it is tripling its maintenance facilities in Singapore’s Seletar Aerospace Park to meet increasing demand for its services.
“Jet Aviation is one of the premier service providers in the world” said Jay Heublein, Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing, Nextant Aerospace. “They have an excellent reputation for the quality of their staff and their outstanding level of customer service. It is vital for us to have a support network which reflects our ambitions and values. We could not ask for a better partner in the region.”
“We are delighted to have been appointed as Nextant’s authorized service center in Singapore," said Gary Dolski, Vice President and General Manager, Jet Aviation Singapore. "They have a truly unique product offering with significant potential in the region. Like us, they are committed to the highest standards of customer service and support."
Sintavia Develops Proprietary Niobium Printing Technology
C103 material parameter specification to enable full alloy adoption across Defense & Space applications
HOLLYWOOD, Fla.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Sintavia, LLC, a designer and additive manufacturer of complex mechanical systems for the Aerospace, Defense, & Space industry, announced today that it has developed proprietary material parameters for alloy C103, a high-performance niobium alloy well suited for rocket, jet, and satellite propulsion applications. The refractory metal, which is difficult to print without extensive parameter development, was developed on an EOS GmbH M290 printer and represents the 29th proprietary material parameter developed by Sintavia for use by its Aerospace, Defense, & Space OEM customers.
 The mechanical properties of Sintavia’s C103 include an as-printed density of 99.94% and a Z-direction elongation of 32% after a standard stress relief cycle. Full performance data for Sintavia’s C103 parameter set can be found on the company’s website, www.sintavia.com/materials-guide/.
“Due to its extremely high melting point, niobium is widely recognized as an excellent material for space propulsion applications, specifically reaction control thrusters and attitude control thrusters,” said Pavlo Earle, Sintavia’s Vice President of Technology Engineering. “With this development, Sintavia is able to offer its space customers components that embody industry-leading mechanical properties. When combined with Sintavia’s equally best-in-class design and additive production capability, our C103 parameters offer our customers a high-quality and reliable industrial solution for extreme temperature applications.”
Mr. Earle added that Sintavia is currently developing proprietary standards for other refractory materials for use across the Aerospace, Defense, & Space industry.
Sintavia designs and 3D prints advanced propulsion and thermodynamic systems for customers in the aerospace and defense industry. A founding member of the Additive Manufacturer Green Trade Association, Sintavia is committed to the highest quality standards in the industry and holds multiple Nadcap and other aerospace accreditations.
Two European bodies have signed a memorandum of cooperation (MOC) to push forward the development of satellite-based communication systems for the continent’s air transport system.
The BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS) is a project built and operated by China as a component of the country's national security and economic and social development strategy.
In the new era, BDS demonstrates China's resolve and confidence in striving for greater strength and self-reliance in science and technology. It embodies the Chinese people's spirit and commitment to independence and self-reliance in overcoming difficulties through hard work, showcases the strength of China's socialist system in pooling resources on major projects, and epitomizes China's global vision and its sense of responsibility in helping others to achieve common development.
As a major player in the aerospace industry that takes its responsibilities seriously, China continues to improve BDS operation management and the system's performance. It ensures continuous and stable operation, open and transparent information, and sustained, healthy and rapid development of the BDS system, so as to provide reliable, secure and high-quality spatiotemporal information services.
In the new era, China has synergized the development and application of BDS. It has made continuous efforts to refine the products supporting the BDS industry, expand application fields, improve the industry ecosystem, and promote large-scale applications. BDS applications have been better integrated into the overall development of the national economy to promote the sound development of the BDS applications industry, so as to inject strong impetus into socioeconomic development.
China constantly upgrades its BDS governance in the new era. It has made consistent efforts to bring forward innovative ideas on systems, mechanisms and development methods, to improve policies and regulations, to optimize organization and management, to build up strengths in high-caliber professionals, to promote technological innovation through reform, and to better combine a well-functioning market with competent government.
Following the principles of openness, integration, coordination, cooperation, compatibility, complementarity and sharing, China has carried out active international cooperation on BDS and advanced its international applications. This will enable the system to better serve the world, benefit humanity, and contribute to building a global community of shared future.
From observing Beidou (Chinese pinyin for the Big Dipper) to developing and using BDS, from gazing at the stars to utilizing the space, the Chinese people have shown their great potential and created a promising future.
The universe is vast enough to accommodate exploration and utilization by all countries; by the same token, it demands global cooperation. 
China is ready to share its achievements in developing BDS, and it will work with all countries to promote the development of navigation satellite systems, venture into deeper space, and make an even greater contribution to building a global community of shared future and a better world.
flexible, smart, precise and secure navigation, positioning and timing services
BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS)
BDS-3
Medium Earth Orbit (MEO) satellite
Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO) satellite
Inclined Geosynchronous Orbit (IGSO) satellite
short message communication
ground-based augmentation
satellite-based augmentation
global decimeter-level positioning and navigation
a hybrid navigation constellation in medium and high earth orbits
inter-satellite links
navigation and positioning function
communication function
basic navigation information
differential augmentation information
BDS integrated inter-satellite and satellite-ground network
Overall Plan for Comprehensively Promoting BDS Industrial Applications
inertial navigation
visual navigation
big data
the internet of things
artificial intelligence
a mechanism for promoting the coordinated progress of the project, its applications, and international cooperation
management of satellite radio frequencies and orbits
a mechanism for propelling innovation in satellite navigation technology
International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (ICG)
Regional Center for Space Science and Technology Education in Asia and the Pacific (China) affiliated to the United Nations
BeiDou International Exchange and Training Center
official standards for BDS shipborne receiver equipment