The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its fifty-first session in Vienna from 11 to 20 June 2
The officers of the Committee were as follows: Chairman: Ciro Arévalo Yepes (Colombia) First Vice-Chairman: Suvit Vibulsresth (Thailand) Second Vice-Chairman/Rapporteur: Filipe Duarte Santos (Portugal) The unedited verbatim transcripts of the meetings of the Committee are contained in documents COPUOS/T.582-
A. Meetings of subsidiary bodies 
The Scientific and Technical Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space had held its forty-fifth session in Vienna from 11 to 22 February 2008, under the chairmanship of Aboubekr Seddik Kedjar (Algeria). The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/911). 
The Legal Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space had held its forty-seventh session in Vienna from 31 March to 11 April 2008, under the chairmanship of Vladimír Kopal (Czech Republic). The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/917). The unedited verbatim transcripts of the meetings of the Subcommittee are contained in documents COPUOS/Legal/T.765-
B. Adoption of the agenda 
At its opening meeting, the Committee adopted the following agenda: 
Opening of the session. 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Election of officers. 
Statement by the Chairman. 
General exchange of views. 
Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. 
Implementation of the recommendations of the Third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III). 
Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty- fifth session. 
Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its forty-seventh session. 
Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status. 
Space and society. 
Space and water. 
International cooperation in promoting the use of space-derived geospatial data for sustainable development. 
Other matters. 
Report of the Committee to the General Assembly. C. Membership 
In accordance with General Assembly resolutions 1472 A (XIV) of 12 December 1959, 1721 E (XVI) of 20 December 1961, 3182 (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973, 32/196 B of 20 December 1977, 35/16 of 3 November 1980, 49/33 of 9 December 1994, 56/51 of 10 December 2001, 57/116 of 11 December 2002, 59/116 of 10 December 2004, 62/217 of 22 December 2007 and decision 45/315 of 11 December 1990, the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was composed of the following 69 States: Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. D. Attendance 
Representatives of the following 58 States members of the Committee attended the session: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. 
At its 582nd and 585th meetings, the Committee decided to invite, at their request, observers for Angola, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Panama, Paraguay, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia and Yemen, as well as the Holy See, to attend its fifty-first session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that it would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
Observers for the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) of the Secretariat, the United Nations University, the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) attended the session. 
The session was also attended by observers for the African Organization of Cartography and Remote Sensing (AOCRS), the Association of Space Explorers (ASE), the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites, the Regional Centre for Remote Sensing of North African States, the European Commission, the European Organisation for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere (ESO), the European Space Agency (ESA), the European Space Policy Institute (ESPI), EURISY, the International Academy of Astronautics (IAA), the International Astronautical Federation (IAF), the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA), the International Institute of Space Law (IISL), the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS), the International Space University (ISU), the Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water, the Secure World Foundation (SWF), the Space Generation Advisory Council (SGAC) and the World Space Week Association (WSWA). 
A list of representatives of States members of the Committee, States not members of the Committee, United Nations entities and other organizations attending the session is contained in document A/AC.105/2008/INF/
E. General statements 
Statements were made by representatives of the following States members of the Committee during the general exchange of views: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Ecuador, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Japan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, Ukraine, United States, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. The representative of Argentina made a statement on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. Statements were also made by the observers for ESO, IAA, IAF, IISL, SGAC and SWF. 
The Committee welcomed Ciro Arévalo Yepes (Colombia) as its Chairman, Suvit Vibulsresth (Thailand) as its First Vice-Chairman and Filipe Duarte Santos (Portugal) as its Second Vice-Chairman/Rapporteur. The Committee thanked Gérard Brachet (France) for his outstanding contribution during his term as Chairman, and Elod Both (Hungary) and Paul R. Tiendrébéogo (Burkino Faso) for their excellent work as First Vice-Chairman and Second Vice-Chairman/Rapporteur respectively. 
The Committee welcomed Bolivia and Switzerland as new members and noted their active participation in the Committee and its Subcommittees during their first year of membership. The Committee also welcomed AOCRS as a new permanent observer. 
The Committee expressed its condolences to the Governments of China and Myanmar for the loss of human life and property resulting from the recent natural disasters in their countries. 
At the 582nd meeting, on 11 June, the Chairman made a statement outlining the work of the Committee at its current session. The Chairman laid stress on the major role played by the Committee in shaping international standards for space activities in many areas and stated that it was important to further strengthen that successful role of the Committee in order to make the benefits of space technology available to the whole of humanity and to ensure sustainable development. 
Also at the 582nd meeting, the Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs of the Secretariat made a statement in which she reviewed the work carried out by the Office during the previous year, including maintaining the United Nations Register on Objects Launched into Outer Space, capacity-building in space law, outreach activities and cooperation and coordination with United Nations entities and international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Director for the services provided and the work conducted by the Office in the previous year, and welcomed her in her new role as Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs. 
The Committee was informed that, on 20 February 2008, the United States had successfully intercepted USA 193, an inoperable satellite of the National Reconnaissance Office of the United States, which had been in its final orbit before making what would have been an uncontrolled re-entry into the Earth’s atmosphere, and that almost all of the resultant space debris had fallen to Earth and had not survived re-entry. The Committee was also informed of the notifications given prior to and after the interception, including at the sessions of its two Subcommittees. 
The Committee heard a presentation given by S. Dale, Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of NASA, which included a film entitled “Fifty years of exploration: the golden anniversary of NASA”. The Committee expressed its appreciation to the delegation of the United States for its gift of copies of a book entitled America in Space to the delegation of each member State of the Committee. F. Adoption of the report of the Committee 
After considering the various items before it, the Committee, at its 596th meeting, on 20 June, adopted its report to the General Assembly containing the recommendations and decisions set out below. Chapter II Recommendations and decisions A. Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes 
In accordance with paragraph 43 of General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Committee continued its consideration, as a matter of priority, of ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. 
The representatives of Chile, Cuba, Ecuador, India, Ukraine, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements during the discussion on this item. During the general exchange of views, statements were also made on this item by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee heard a presentation entitled “European space policy”, by H.-D. Dage (European Commission). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the agreement of the General Assembly that, during its consideration of the matter, the Committee could continue to consider ways to promote regional and interregional cooperation based on experiences stemming from the Space Conference of the Americas, the African Leadership Conference on Space Science and Technology for Sustainable Development and the role that space technology could play in the implementation of the recommendations of the World Summit on Sustainable Development.1 
The Committee was of the view that, through its work in the scientific, technical and legal fields, the Committee had a fundamental role to play in ensuring that outer space was maintained for peaceful purposes. That role could be strengthened by new initiatives, as well as by continued progress in implementing the recommendations of UNISPACE III. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the work that had been carried out by the pro tempore secretariat of the Fifth Space Conference of the Americas, established by the Government of Ecuador to carry out the plan of action of the Conference, and that preparations were being undertaken for the Sixth Space Conference of the Americas, to be held in Guatemala in 2
In that regard, the Committee noted that a meeting had been held in Quito on 13 and 14 December 2007 with representatives of the Governments of Colombia, Ecuador and Guatemala, the International Group of Experts of the Space Conferences of the Americas and the Office for Outer Space Affairs; the meeting had resulted in a set of recommendations for the preparation of the Sixth Conference. A second meeting was to be held in Ecuador from 30 July to 1 August 2008, in conjunction with a regional seminar on space law. 
The Committee also noted with satisfaction that the Second African Leadership Conference on Space Science and Technology for Sustainable Development had been held in Pretoria from 2 to 5 October 2007, with a focus on Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum). capacity-building, knowledge-sharing and the joint participation of African countries in mutually beneficial projects in the area of space science and technology for sustainable development, and that the Third African Leadership Conference on Space Science and Technology for Sustainable Development would be held in Algeria in 2
The Committee noted the important role played by those conferences and other initiatives in promoting regional and international partnerships among States, such as the 2008 International Air and Space Fair, held in Santiago from 31 March to 6 April 2008, during which a conference had been organized on space technology and climate change in relation to achieving the Millennium Development Goals; the fourteenth session of the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum, held in Bangalore, India, from 21 to 23 November 2007; and the ongoing preparations for the fifteenth session of the Forum, to be held in Hanoi and Ha Long Bay, Viet Nam, from 10 to 12 December 2
The Committee emphasized that regional and international cooperation in the field of space activities was essential to strengthen the peaceful uses of outer space, to assist States in the development of their space capabilities and to contribute to the achievement of the goals of the United Nations Millennium Declaration (General Assembly resolution 55/2 of 8 September 2000).2 
The view was expressed that, with regard to the need to maintain outer space for peaceful purposes, the Committee should play a key role by disseminating information on and promoting the peaceful uses of outer space and by continuing to contribute to consolidating and perfecting the ethical principles and legal instruments that could guarantee the non-discriminatory use of outer space exclusively for peaceful purposes. 
The view was expressed that, in order to maintain the peaceful, responsible and international character of the space field, the Committee should promote greater transparency in the space activities being undertaken by various States. 
Some delegations were of the view that the best way to maintain outer space for peaceful purposes was to strengthen international cooperation, in particular with respect to the safety and security of space assets. 
The view was expressed that, in order to achieve sustainability in space cooperation, building the capacity of countries, in particular developing countries, in space technology and its applications should be considered a priority matter. 
The view was expressed that the Committee played an important role in advancing space cooperation, provided a unique forum for the exchange of information among States and offered real opportunities to enhance international cooperation, in keeping with its mandate. 
Some delegations were of the view that climate change had an impact on international stability and security and that that issue should be considered within the framework of the programme of work of the Committee. See A/56/326, annex, and A/58/323, annex. 
The view was expressed that, in order to further the objective of promoting the peaceful uses of outer space, the limited resources of outer space, such as geostationary orbital positions, should be shared equitably among countries. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the militarization of outer space would undermine the peaceful use of outer space for sustainable development. 
The view was expressed that calls for the placement of weapons in outer space would inevitably lead to suspicion and tension among States and the destruction of a climate of trust and cooperation and that, therefore, the discussions of the Committee on maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes should continue to be held. 
Some delegations were of the view that the Committee should play a more active role in the development of a concrete legal regime that could effectively prevent an arms race in outer space. 
Some delegations were of the view that formal and informal means should be identified to promote communication between the Committee and the Conference on Disarmament. 
The view was expressed that the Committee had been created exclusively to promote international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space and that disarmament issues were more appropriately dealt with in other forums, such as the First Committee of the General Assembly and the Conference on Disarmament. 
The Committee noted that, on 12 February 2008, China and the Russian Federation had presented to the Conference on Disarmament a draft treaty on the prevention of the placement of weapons in outer space and of the threat or use of force against outer space objects. 
The Committee recommended that, at its fifty-second session, in 2009, it should continue its consideration, on a priority basis, of the item on ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. B. Implementation of the recommendations of the Third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space 
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Committee considered the item on the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III. 
The representatives of Belgium, Canada, Chile, India, Japan, Nigeria and Ukraine made statements under the item. A statement was also made by the observer for ISU. Representatives of other member States also made statements relating to this item during the general exchange of views and during the discussion on the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty-fifth session. 
The Committee had before it, for its consideration, a plan for its contribution to the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development, including a template and guidelines for use by member States and permanent observers of the Committee in preparing inputs to the contribution of the Committee to the issues to be addressed by the Commission on Sustainable Development in the period 2010-2011 (A/AC.105/2008/CRP.3). 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, at its forty- fifth session, had reconvened the Working Group of the Whole to consider the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III. The Chairman of the Working Group of the Whole was K. Radhakrishnan (India). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and its Working Group of the Whole with regard to the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Space weather as a framework for international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space”, by T. J. Bogdan (United States); (b) “Food security and sustainable agriculture: bridging remote sensing and ground information for national and international policy actions”, by M. Shah (IIASA). 
The Committee emphasized the importance of implementing the Plan of Action contained in its report to the General Assembly on the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III (A/59/174, sect. VI.B) and noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 59/2, the Committee should continue to consider, at its future sessions, the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III until the Committee considered that concrete results had been achieved. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that Member States were also contributing to the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III through a number of national and regional activities and efforts, and that some Member States were contributing to the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III through their participation in action teams established by the Committee to implement those recommendations. In that regard, the Committee noted with satisfaction that the Action Team on Public Health, chaired by Canada and the World Health Organization, had advanced its work by further enhancing its Web portal for facilitating the exchange of information and was identifying priorities for improving public health services at the regional level. 
The Committee also noted with appreciation that Member States were implementing the recommendations of UNISPACE III by, among other things, actively supporting and participating in the work related to the 10-Year Implementation Plan of the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS). 
The view was expressed that the Working Group of the Whole should focus its discussion on the implementation of the following three actions called for in the Plan of Action: maximizing the benefits of existing space capabilities for disaster management; maximizing the benefits of the use and applications of global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) to support sustainable development; and enhancing capacity-building in space-related activities. 
The view was expressed that the presence of non-governmental entities and the willingness of experts to make special presentations had enriched the sessions of the Committee and its subcommittees, and that ultimate success in implementing the recommendations of UNISPACE III would depend on their continued involvement. 
The view was expressed that, given that the tenth anniversary of UNISPACE III and the fifth anniversary of the UNISPACE III + 5 review were both to occur in 2009, the timing of future UNISPACE conferences merited consideration. 
The Committee welcomed with satisfaction the link established between its work relating to the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III and the work being carried out by the Commission on Sustainable Development, and noted with appreciation that, following coordination between the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the Division for Sustainable Development of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the Secretariat, a report on the contribution of the Committee to the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development for the thematic cluster 2008-2009 (A/AC.105/892) had been circulated as a background paper at the sixteenth session of the Commission. The Committee also noted that the importance of the role of space technology applications in various areas of sustainable development had been mentioned in the report of the Secretary-General entitled “Review of implementation of Agenda 21 and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation: drought” (E/CN.17/2008/6, paras. 48 and 49). 
The Committee noted that, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs had attended the sixteenth session of the Commission on Sustainable Development and had made a statement during the thematic discussions on interlinkages and cross-cutting issues, highlighting the contribution of the Committee to the work of the Commission for the thematic cluster 2008-2009, with the objective of raising awareness of the role of space based technologies and their applications in the thematic cluster areas under consideration: agriculture; land use and rural development; drought and desertification; and sustainable development in Africa.3 
The Committee agreed upon the plan for its contribution to the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development for the thematic cluster 2010-2011 (A/AC.105/2008/CRP.3). The Committee further agreed that, in accordance with that plan, the Secretariat would send out requests to all member States and permanent observers of the Committee and, through the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities, to United Nations entities for inputs to the contribution of the Committee to the issues to be addressed by the Commission in the period 2010- 2
The Committee agreed that the contribution of the Committee should examine the areas of the thematic cluster in which space technology and its applications played a particularly important role; pay attention to the cross-cutting issues identified by the Commission; identify areas where space-based systems could complement terrestrial systems in order to promote integrated solutions; and include, as appropriate, in addition to examples of regional and international cooperation, national success stories that might provide useful examples for the overall contribution of the Committee. The statement is available on the website of the Office for Outer Space Affairs (www.unoosa.org/oosa/OOSA/news/csd-16_2008.html). 
The Committee agreed that the Director of the Division for Sustainable Development of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs should continue to be invited to participate in the sessions of the Committee to advise on how best it could contribute to the work of the Commission on Sustainable Development and that the Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs should attend the sessions of the Commission with a view to raising awareness and promoting the benefits of space science and technology, in particular in the areas being addressed by the Commission. 
Upon a proposal by Chile, the Committee requested the Secretariat to organize a panel discussion, to be chaired by the Chairman of the Committee, on the theme of space applications and food security, to be held in the Fourth Committee of the General Assembly at its sixty-third session, in 2008, when it considers the item on international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that a report on the international celebration of World Space Week in 2007, prepared by WSWA in cooperation with the Office for Outer Space Affairs, had been made available in a special publication (ST/SPACE/38). C. Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty-fifth session 
The Committee took note with appreciation of the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty-fifth session (A/AC.105/911), which contained the results of its deliberations on the items assigned to it by the General Assembly in its resolution 62/
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Chairman of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, Aboubekr Seddik Kedjar (Algeria), for his able leadership and contributions during the forty-fifth session of the Subcommittee. 
The representatives of Chile, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Russian Federation, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under this item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to this item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee heard the following presentations under this agenda item: (a) “Activity of the Russian Federation on the space debris problem”, by D. V. Gorobets (Russian Federation); (b) “Sentinel Asia: collaboration from the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum”, by M. Kajii (Japan); (c) “Rapid mapping services and applications for emergency response”, by H. Mehl (Germany); (d) “Youth views on capacity-building for community-based disaster management in the context of the recent disasters in the Asia-Pacific region”, by B. Thakore (SGAC); (e) “The asteroid threat: approaching a time for international decision”, by F. Chang Díaz (ASE); (f) “Introducing a new framework for space traffic management”, by J. Catena (SGAC); (g) “International project RIM-PAMELA: investigation of cosmic antiparticle fluxes”, by A. Galper (Russian Federation). 
The Committee took note with interest of the report of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities on its twenty-eighth session (A/AC.105/909) and the report of the Secretary-General on the coordination of space-related activities within the United Nations system: directions and anticipated results for the period 2008-2009 (A/AC.105/910). 
At the 586th meeting, the Chairman of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities, Francesco Pisano of the UNITAR Operational Satellite Applications Programme (UNOSAT) made a statement on the work of the Inter- Agency Meeting at its twenty-eighth session, held in Geneva from 16 to 18 January 2
The Committee agreed that, in accordance with the wish expressed by the Inter-Agency Meeting at its twenty-eighth session (A/AC.105/909, para. 43), the Meeting should report directly to the Committee and continue to ensure the widest possible participation of United Nations entities. 
United Nations Programme on Space Applications (a) Activities of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications 
The Expert on Space Applications briefed the Committee on the overall strategy for the implementation of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications. 
The Committee noted the priority thematic areas of the Programme, as referred to in the report of the Expert on Space Applications (A/AC.105/900, para. 5) and in the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty-fifth session (A/AC.105/911, para. 31). The Committee noted that, in order to ensure the integrity of the Programme’s overall efforts, it was necessary for the Programme to continue to include in its activities all the priority thematic areas, such as natural resources management and environmental monitoring, disaster management, tele-education, tele-health and basic space science. 
The Committee took note of the activities of the Programme carried out in 2007, as set out in the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 36-39) and in the report of the Expert on Space Applications (A/AC.105/900, para. 55 and annex I). The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Office for Outer Space Affairs for the manner in which the activities of the Programme had been implemented with the limited funds available. The Committee also expressed its appreciation to the Governments and intergovernmental and non- governmental organizations that had sponsored those activities. The Committee noted with satisfaction that further progress was being made in the implementation of the activities of the Programme for 2008, as set out in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, para. 40). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the Programme was helping developing countries and countries with economies in transition to participate in and benefit from the space activities being carried out in implementing various recommendations of UNISPACE III. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the work carried out by the Office under the Programme and expressed its gratitude to Alice Lee, the Expert on Space Applications, for her excellent work in furthering the objectives of the Programme. 
The Committee once again expressed its concern that the financial resources available for the Programme remained limited and appealed to the donor community to support the Programme through voluntary contributions. The Committee held the view that the limited resources available to the United Nations should be focused on activities of the highest priority; it noted that the United Nations Programme on Space Applications was a priority activity of the Office for Outer Space Affairs. (i) Conferences, training courses and workshops of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications 
The Committee endorsed the workshops, training courses, symposiums and expert meetings planned for the remaining part of 2008, and expressed its appreciation to Austria, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Colombia, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, the United Kingdom and the United States, as well as to ESA and IAF, for co-sponsoring, hosting and supporting those activities (A/AC.105/900, annex II). 
The Committee endorsed the programme of workshops, training courses, symposiums and conferences planned to be held in 2009 for the benefit of developing countries, as follows: (a) Six workshops and symposiums on the integrated applications of space technologies for sustainable development, disaster mitigation and environmental monitoring, which would also address issues related to natural resources management and various issues related to the United Nations global agendas for development; (b) One workshop on the use of GNSS for integrated applications; (c) One training course on the satellite-aided search and rescue system; (d) One workshop on space law; (e) One workshop on basic space science. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the host countries of the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, were providing the centres with significant financial and in-kind support. (ii) Long-term fellowships for in-depth training 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Government of Italy, which, through the Politecnico di Torino and the Istituto Superiore Mario Boella and with the collaboration of the Istituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale Galileo Ferraris, had provided five 12-month fellowships for postgraduate studies in GNSS and related applications. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Government of Argentina, which, through the National Commission on Space Activities (CONAE), had provided fellowships for a six-week training course at the Advanced School for Training in Landscape Epidemiology of the Mario Gulich Institute for Advanced Space Studies in Córdoba, Argentina. The Committee also noted the cooperation between CONAE and several Chilean universities, including the University of La Serena. 
The Committee noted that a new fellowship programme, to be called the “United Nations/Africa fellowship on telehealth”, would be launched in November 2008 in cooperation with the Department of Telehealth of the Nelson R. Mandela School of Medicine, University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, and the International Society for Telemedicine and eHealth. The fellowship programme would provide short-term, basic training in telemedicine for 40 to 80 physicians in two to four African countries each year. 
The Committee noted that it was important to increase opportunities for in-depth education in all areas of space science, technology and applications through long-term fellowships and urged Member States to make such opportunities available at their relevant institutions. (iii) Technical advisory services 
The Committee noted with appreciation the technical advisory services provided under the United Nations Programme on Space Applications in support of activities and projects promoting regional cooperation in space applications, as referred to in the report of the Expert on Space Applications (A/AC.105/900, paras. 34-42). (b) International Space Information Service 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the publication entitled Highlights in Space 2007 had been issued.4 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the Secretariat had continued to enhance the International Space Information Service and the website of the Office for Outer Space Affairs (www.unoosa.org). The Committee also noted with satisfaction that the Secretariat was continuing to maintain a website on the coordination of outer space activities within the United Nations system (www.uncosa.unvienna.org). (c) Regional and interregional cooperation 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the United Nations Programme on Space Applications continued to emphasize cooperation with Member States at the regional and global levels, aimed at supporting the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations. 
The Committee also noted that the General Assembly, in its resolution 62/217, had agreed that the regional centres should continue to report to the Committee on their activities on an annual basis. United Nations publication, Sales No. E.08.I.
The Committee noted that the highlights of the activities of the regional centres supported under the Programme in 2007 and the activities planned for 2008 and 2009 were included in the report of the Expert on Space Applications (A/AC.105/900, annex III). 
The Committee noted that the Government of India had continuously provided strong support to the Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education in Asia and the Pacific since its inception in 1995, including by making the appropriate facilities and expertise available to it through the Indian Space Research Organisation and the Department of Space. The Committee also noted that, to date, the Centre had conducted 27 nine-month postgraduate courses. 
The Committee noted that the Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Latin America and the Caribbean had started organizing nine-month postgraduate courses in 2
The Centre was strongly supported by the Governments of Brazil and Mexico and by the National Institute for Space Research of Brazil and the National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics and Electronics of Mexico. To date, the Brazil Campus had conducted five postgraduate courses on remote sensing and geographic information systems (GIS). The Mexico Campus had conducted two postgraduate courses on remote sensing and GIS and one course on satellite communications. The Centre was preparing a course on space and atmospheric science, to be offered in the academic year 2008-2
The Committee noted that the African Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education—in French Language had been organizing nine-month postgraduate courses since its inauguration in 1
The Centre was actively supported by the Governments of Algeria and Morocco, as well as by the Royal Centre for Remote Sensing, the Mohammadia Engineering School, the Hassan II Institute of Agronomy and Veterinary Medicine, the National Institute of Telecommunications and the National Directorate of Meteorology. The Committee noted that the Centre had already conducted nine nine-month postgraduate courses on remote sensing and GIS, satellite communications and satellite meteorology and global climate. 
The Committee noted that, since its inauguration in Nigeria in 1998 under the auspices of the National Space Research and Development Agency of Nigeria, the African Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education—in English Language had organized 12 nine-month postgraduate courses. 
The Committee noted the publication of Capacity Building in Space Science and Technology: Regional Centres for Space Science and Technology Education Affiliated to the United Nations, which contained comprehensive information on the development and achievements of the regional centres since their inauguration (ST/SPACE/39). 
The Committee emphasized that the promotion and strengthening of regional and interregional cooperation was important for building capacity in space activities. In that regard, the Committee noted with appreciation the efforts made at the regional level through several ongoing initiatives and processes, including the annual sessions of the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum, the biennial African Leadership Conferences on Space Science and Technology for Sustainable Development and the series of Space Conferences of the Americas. 
The Committee further noted that the Asia-Pacific Space Cooperation Organization provided a cooperative arrangement to promote and strengthen the peaceful uses of outer space in the region and that it had organized a master’s degree course in space technology and applications in Asia and the Pacific. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that, since 2005, the United Nations Programme on Space Applications had oriented its activities towards supporting low-cost or no-cost pilot projects that could contribute to sustainable development at the national, regional and international levels. The expanded focus of the Programme on such projects had yielded tangible results. 
The Committee noted that, within its limited budget and with voluntary contributions from each participating entity, the Programme had implemented pilot projects in various thematic areas and had endeavoured to increase its support for pilot projects of national or regional significance in developing countries. The Office would continue those efforts with the voluntary support of the participating entities, based on the principle that funds not be transferred among the parties to a project. The Office would also place emphasis on the sustainability of projects with a view to applying space technologies to contribute to economic and social growth. 
The Committee further noted that the Office would welcome offers of co-sponsorship for future projects that benefited developing countries. (d) International Satellite System for Search and Rescue 
The Committee recalled that, at its forty-fourth session, it had agreed that a report on the activities of the International Satellite System for Search and Rescue (COSPAS-SARSAT) should be considered annually by the Committee as part of its consideration of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications and that member States should report on their activities regarding COSPAS-SARSAT.5 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that COSPAS-SARSAT was using space technology to save the lives of people in distress around the globe. Since becoming operational in 1982, COSPAS-SARSAT had introduced analogue and digital emergency beacons worldwide and had expanded its space segment to include ad hoc payloads on geostationary and low-Earth orbit satellites that currently provided alert signals. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that COSPAS-SARSAT currently had 38 member States, which offered seven polar-orbiting and five geostationary satellites that provided worldwide coverage for the search and rescue beacons. Since 1982, COSPAS-SARSAT had helped to save approximately 22,000 lives. 
The Committee took note of the phasing-out of the beacons operating at 121.5 MHz, which was to be completed by 1 February 2
The Committee noted with satisfaction that outreach efforts were being undertaken to raise awareness of that programme change. 
The Committee also noted that efforts were under way to establish an International Beacon Registration Database for COSPAS-SARSAT that would enable beacon owners in countries that did not register beacons to do so and enable Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 20 and corrigendum (A/56/20 and Corr.1), para. 
nations that maintained a beacon registration service that was not available online to record their beacons with the Database. 
The Committee further noted that the use of satellites in mid-Earth orbit was being explored with a view to improving location accuracy, while reducing the inherent delay associated with satellites in low-Earth orbit, and international satellite-aided search and rescue operations. 
Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had continued its consideration of matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that agenda item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 73-83). 
The Committee encouraged further international cooperation in the use of remote sensing satellites, in particular by sharing experiences and technologies through bilateral, regional and international collaborative projects. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the signing by Algeria, Nigeria and South Africa of a declaration of intent for the development of the African Resource and Environmental Management constellation, which had taken place on the margins of the fifty-first session of the Committee. 
The Committee stressed the important role of Earth observation satellite data in supporting activities in a number of key areas of sustainable development and emphasized, in that connection, the importance of providing non-discriminatory access to remote sensing data and to derived information at a reasonable cost or free of charge and in a timely manner, as well as the importance of building capacity in the use of remote sensing technology, in particular to meet the needs of developing countries. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the presentation by the observer for the secretariat of GEO, made at the forty-fifth session of its Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at the invitation of the General Assembly in its resolution 62/217, on the progress made in the implementation of the 10-Year Implementation Plan of the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS), and noted that GEOSS had been designed to make tangible contributions in the following nine “societal benefit areas”: agriculture, biodiversity, climate, disasters, ecosystems, energy, health, water and weather. 
The view was expressed that the free availability on the Internet of high- resolution imagery of sensitive areas was cause for concern. That delegation proposed that guidelines consistent with national policies should be developed to regulate the availability in the public domain of such sensitive data. 
The Committee encouraged further international cooperation among member States in the use of remote sensing satellites, in particular by sharing experiences and technologies through bilateral, regional and international collaborative projects. 
Space debris 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had continued its consideration of the agenda item on space debris. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee on space debris, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 84-100). 
The Committee noted with great satisfaction that, in paragraph 26 of its resolution 62/217, the General Assembly had endorsed the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. 
The Committee noted that the Subcommittee wished to be periodically informed by the Inter-Agency Space Debris Coordination Committee (IADC) of any revisions of the IADC Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines in the light of evolving technologies and debris mitigation practices and that the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee might be amended in accordance with such revisions. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that some member States had already implemented space debris mitigation measures on a voluntary basis, through national mechanisms and consistent with the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of IADC and those of the Committee, and looked forward to receiving updates on the implementation of space debris mitigation measures through national mechanisms. 
The Committee noted that some member States were continuing to carry out research on the problem of space debris, both nationally and internationally. 
The Committee further noted that a new item on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee at its forty-eighth session, in 2009, entitled “General exchange of information on national mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation measures”, would provide an opportunity for the Committee to be informed of different national approaches to the implementation of space debris mitigation guidelines and would be of assistance to those States that were still in the process of initiating such national measures. 
The Committee agreed with the Subcommittee that consideration of space debris was important, that international cooperation was needed to develop more appropriate and affordable strategies to minimize the potential impact of space debris on future space missions and that, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 62/217, Member States, in particular spacefaring countries, should pay more attention to the problem of collisions of space objects, including those with nuclear power sources (NPS) on board, with space debris and to other aspects of space debris, as well as its re-entry into the atmosphere. 
The Committee agreed that the voluntary guidelines for the mitigation of space debris would increase mutual understanding on acceptable activities in space and thus enhance stability in space-related matters and decrease the likelihood of friction and conflict. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the adoption of the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee was the first important step towards a comprehensive solution to the problem of the safety of space traffic and looked forward to further discussions on the topic. 
The view was expressed that the issue of space debris should also be considered by the Legal Subcommittee, with a view to developing a binding legal framework. 
The view was expressed that transparency among Member States was indispensable to space debris mitigation, and all spacefaring States were urged to share information regarding the location and physical characteristics of space debris potentially resulting from their activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that, while the voluntary guidelines represented a significant advance, they would not cover all debris-producing situations and would therefore need to be kept under consideration. 
The view was expressed that the States most responsible for the creation of space debris and the States having the capability to take action on space debris mitigation should make a greater contribution to space debris mitigation efforts than other States. 
Space-system-based disaster management support 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had considered the agenda item on space-system-based disaster management support and that, pursuant to paragraph 155 of the report of the Committee on its fiftieth session, the Subcommittee had requested the Working Group of the Whole to consider the agenda item. The Committee took note of the discussions of the Subcommittee under that agenda item, as contained in the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, including the discussions and recommendations of the Working Group of the Whole (A/AC.105/911, paras. 101-111, and annex I, paras. 14-21). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the progress made within the framework of the United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response (UN-SPIDER) in 2007, including inaugurating and making fully operational the UN-SPIDER office in Bonn, Germany, as set out in the report on activities carried out in 2007 in the framework of the United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response (A/AC.105/899). 
The Committee noted with appreciation that significant extrabudgetary resources had been provided by various member States to support UN-SPIDER activities in 2008 and 2009 and that, in addition to the contributions received to date, Austria and the Czech Republic would be making additional financial contributions. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the increase in the availability of space-based information, as well as in the provision of expertise to support emergency relief efforts, as indicated by the level of support provided during the recent natural disasters of the earthquake in the Sichuan Province of China, Cyclone Nargis in Myanmar and the floods in Namibia. 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with paragraph 11 of General Assembly resolution 61/110 of 14 December 2006, UN-SPIDER should work closely with national and regional centres of expertise in the use of space technology in disaster management to form a network of regional support offices for implementing the activities of the programme in their respective regions in a coordinated manner and to take advantage of the valuable experience and capabilities being offered, and to be offered, by Member States, particularly by developing countries, and agreed upon the following guidelines for selecting and setting up the proposed UN-SPIDER regional support offices: (a) A UN-SPIDER regional support office will be set up within an existing entity by a Member State or group of Member States that has put forward an offer to set up and fund the proposed regional support office, with the agreement of the Office for Outer Space Affairs and in consultation with the respective regional group; (b) The entity should provide office space, infrastructure (computer equipment, office furniture, communication facilities and maintenance and operational support) and at least one expert, to be the Coordinator of the regional support office. Additional funding should be provided by the entity to ensure the participation of regional support office staff in UN-SPIDER and other relevant activities, as well as to support the agreed UN-SPIDER-related activities to be carried out by the regional support office; (c) The Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, on receiving a formal offer to set up and fund a regional support office and following consultations with the respective regional group, will work with the entity offering to set up the regional support office, through an exchange of letters, to define a proposed workplan, to be carried out by that office in accordance with the approved UN-SPIDER workplan; (d) The Office for Outer Space Affairs will report annually to the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, within the UN-SPIDER annual report, on the activities of the regional support office; (e) The Office will consult with the Group of African States regarding the offers already received from Algeria (for North Africa) and Nigeria (for West Africa). 
Some delegations expressed the view that UN-SPIDER should continue coordinating its activities with other, existing institutions and initiatives that promoted the use of space-based solutions for disaster risk management, with a view to ensuring that there was no duplication of effort between the work of UN-SPIDER and the work being carried out by those institutions and initiatives. 
Some delegations were of the view that the Office should, in planning the mid- and long-term work of UN-SPIDER, take into account the fiscal realities facing the United Nations and should work to find ways of increasing efficiency and making cost savings. 
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems 
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had considered the agenda item on recent developments in global navigation satellite systems, as a new regular item, and reviewed issues related to the International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (ICG), the latest developments in the field of GNSS and new GNSS applications. 
The Committee noted that, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Chairman of ICG had made a statement to the Subcommittee on the current and future activities of ICG. 
The Committee noted that the Office for Outer Space Affairs served as executive secretariat of ICG and its Providers Forum. The Committee commended the Office on the support that it continued to provide in its role as executive secretariat. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that ICG had been established, on a voluntary basis, as a forum to promote cooperation, as appropriate, on matters of mutual interest to its members related to civil satellite-based positioning, navigation, timing and value-added services, as well as cooperation on the compatibility and interoperability of GNSS, and to promote the use of GNSS to support sustainable development, particularly in developing countries. The Committee also noted with appreciation that the establishment of ICG had been a concrete result of the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that ICG had held its first meeting in Vienna on 1 and 2 November 2006 (A/AC.105/879) and its second meeting in Bangalore, India, from 4 to 7 September 2007 (A/AC.105/901). The Committee also noted that the third meeting of ICG would be held in Pasadena, United States, from 8 to 12 December 2008 and that the fourth meeting would be held in the Russian Federation in 2
The Committee noted that the Providers Forum, which had been established within ICG to enhance the compatibility and interoperability of current and future regional and global navigation satellite systems, and which currently included China, India, Japan, the Russian Federation and the United States, as well as the European Community, had held its first meeting in Bangalore, India, on 4 September 2
The Committee noted that the membership structure of ICG included members, associate members and observers, and that currently nine States, the European Community and 15 organizations (United Nations entities and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations) participated in ICG. The Committee further noted that participation in ICG was open to all States and entities that were providers or users of GNSS services and that were interested and willing to actively engage in ICG activities. 
The Committee agreed on the importance of international cooperation on matters related to the compatibility and interoperability of regional and global space-based positioning, navigation and timing systems, and on the importance of promoting the use of GNSS for the benefit of people worldwide, as space-based positioning, navigation and timing services were of vital importance to all economies and societies. 
The Committee noted that an ICG information portal had been established to provide information on the activities of ICG and its Providers Forum.6 The ICG information portal is available at www.icgsecretariat.org. 
The Committee also noted that, as new space-based positioning, navigation and timing systems emerged, it was crucial, for the benefit of all, that they be compatible and interoperable. 
Use of nuclear power sources in outer space 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had continued its consideration of the item on the use of NPS in outer space. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee on the use of NPS in outer space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 134-153). 
The Committee noted that the Subcommittee, at its forty-fifth session, had reconvened its Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space under the chairmanship of Sam A. Harbison (United Kingdom). The Committee noted that the Working Group had considered the results of the work of the Joint Expert Group of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and the International Atomic Energy Agency in the development of an international technically based framework of goals and recommendations for the safety of planned and currently foreseeable NPS applications in outer space. 
The Committee noted that the Joint Expert Group had prepared the updated text of the draft safety framework for NPS applications in outer space, which had subsequently been made available by the Secretariat in document A/AC.105/C.1/L.292/Rev.1 and which, in April 2008, had been sent for comments to member States and permanent observers of the Committee, as well as to the four IAEA safety standards committees and the Commission on Safety Standards of IAEA. The Committee further noted that the Joint Expert Group, at its fourth meeting, held in Vienna from 9 to 11 June, had considered the comments received by that date. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the Joint Expert Group had continued to successfully implement the actions set out in its workplan for the period 2007-2
The view was expressed that it would be highly desirable to apply best practices, in the interests of safeguarding people and the environment in the Earth’s biosphere and people involved in missions using NPS and of protecting the outer space environment. 
The view was expressed that the use of NPS in outer space should, to the maximum extent possible, be restricted until the safety framework had been clearly defined and progress had been made towards more specific commitments in terms of their use in outer space and comprehensive and transparent information setting out the measures taken to ensure safety should be provided for other countries. That delegation was of the view that no justification existed for contemplating the use of NPS in Earth orbits, for which other sources of energy were available that were much safer and that had been proven to be efficient. 
The view was expressed that it was essential to pursue and promote the formulation of binding international standards dealing with NPS. 
The view was expressed that the adoption of a safety framework for the use of NPS applications in outer space would strengthen the existing regime applicable to the use of that type of energy source in outer space. 
The view was expressed that it was exclusively States, irrespective of their level of social, economic, scientific or technical development, that had an obligation to engage in regulatory activity associated with the use of NPS in outer space and that the matter concerned all of humanity. That delegation was of the view that Governments bore international responsibility for national activities involving the use of NPS in outer space conducted by governmental or non-governmental organizations and that such activities must be beneficial and not detrimental to humanity. 
Some delegations were of the view that NPS continued to play an important role in space exploration since they remained the only source of energy possible for certain space missions. 
Near-Earth objects 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had considered the agenda item on near-Earth objects under the three-year workplan amended at its forty-fourth session (A/AC.105/890, annex III). The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that agenda item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 154-166). 
The Committee noted that the Subcommittee had reconvened its Working Group on Near-Earth Objects, under the chairmanship of Richard Crowther (United Kingdom). The Committee noted with satisfaction the work carried out by the Working Group and the Action Team on Near-Earth Objects and endorsed the amended multi-year workplan for 2009-2011 (A/AC.105/911, annex III, para. 11). 
The Committee noted that international conferences such as the forthcoming conference entitled “100 years since the Tunguska phenomenon: past, present and future”, to be hosted by the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow from 26 to 28 June 2008, provided opportunities to raise awareness among decision makers about the threat posed by near-Earth objects and to promote further cooperation. 
The Committee noted that ASE was making a useful contribution to the work of the Action Team on Near-Earth Objects and the Working Group on Near-Earth Objects in developing draft international procedures for handling the near-Earth object threat in accordance with the multi-year workplan for the agenda item on near-Earth objects. The Committee further noted that those draft international procedures would be presented to the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee for consideration at its forty-sixth session, in 2
International Heliophysical Year 2007 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had considered an agenda item on the International Heliophysical Year 2007, under the three-year workplan adopted at the forty-second session of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/848, annex I). The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the agenda item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 167-181). 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the three-year workplan adopted at the forty-second session of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/848, annex I) had been extended to cover four years, and that the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee would discuss International Heliophysical Year 2007 as a single agenda item at its forty-sixth session, in 2
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the International Heliophysical Year 2007 was an international endeavour, with States from every region of the world hosting instrument arrays, providing scientific investigators or offering supporting space missions, and that the official opening of the International Heliophysical Year 2007 worldwide campaign had taken place during the forty- fourth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, accompanied by an exhibition on the International Heliophysical Year 2007, held at the United Nations Office at Vienna. 
The Committee noted that the Fourth United Nations/European Space Agency/National Aeronautics and Space Administration/Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Workshop on the International Heliophysical Year 2007 and Basic Space Science, hosted by the Government of Bulgaria, had been held in Sozopol, Bulgaria, from 2 to 6 June 2008, following the third workshop, which had been held in Tokyo in 2
The Committee further noted that the fifth workshop would be hosted by the Republic of Korea and held in Jeju from 22 to 25 September 2
The Committee also noted that the International Heliophysical Year 2007 European heliophysics school would be held at the International Centre for Theoretical Physics in Trieste, Italy, in October 2
Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had considered the agenda item on the geostationary orbit and space communications as a single issue/item for discussion. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that agenda item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 182-189). 
Some delegations reiterated the view that the geostationary orbit was a limited natural resource, which ran the risk of becoming saturated. Those delegations were of the view that the exploitation of the geostationary orbit should be rationalized and made available to all countries, irrespective of their current technical capabilities, thus giving them the opportunity to have access to the geostationary orbit under equitable conditions, taking into account in particular the needs of developing countries and the geographical position of certain countries, with the participation and cooperation of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). Those delegations therefore considered that the item on the geostationary orbit should remain on the agenda of the Subcommittee for further discussion, with the purpose of continuing to analyse its scientific and technical characteristics. 
Draft provisional agenda for the forty-sixth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee had considered proposals for a draft provisional agenda for its forty-sixth session. The Subcommittee had endorsed the recommendations of its Working Group of the Whole concerning the draft provisional agenda for the forty-sixth session of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/911, paras. 190-193 and annex I). 
The Committee welcomed the agreement of the Subcommittee that the topic for the 2009 symposium, to be organized by IAF, chosen from a list of topics proposed by IAF, should be “The role of Earth observation satellites in promoting understanding of and addressing climate change concerns” and that the symposium should be held during the first week of the forty-sixth session of the Subcommittee. 
On the basis of the deliberations of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at its forty-fifth session, the Committee agreed on the following draft provisional agenda for the forty-sixth session of the Subcommittee: 
General exchange of views and introduction of reports submitted on national activities. 
United Nations Programme on Space Applications. 
Implementation of the recommendations of the Third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III). 
Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment. 
Space debris. 
Space-system-based disaster management support. 
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems. 
Items to be considered under workplans: (a) Use of nuclear power sources in outer space; (Work for 2009 as reflected in the multi-year workplan in the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty-fourth session (A/AC.105/890, annex II, para. 7)) (b) Near-Earth objects. (Work for 2009 as reflected in the multi-year workplan in the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty-fifth session (A/AC.105/911, annex III, para. 11)) 
Single issue/item for discussion: Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries. 
Single issue/item for discussion: International Heliophysical Year 2
Draft provisional agenda for the forty-seventh session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, including identification of subjects to be dealt with as single issues/items for discussion or under multi-year workplans. 
The Committee endorsed the recommendation that the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space and the Working Group on Near- Earth Objects should reconvene in accordance with their multi-year workplans (A/AC.105/911, annex I, paras. 23 and 24) and agreed that the Subcommittee should reconvene the Working Group of the Whole at its forty-sixth session. D. Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its forty-seventh session 
The Committee took note with appreciation of the report of the Legal Subcommittee on its forty-seventh session (A/AC.105/917), which contained the results of its deliberations on the items assigned to it by the General Assembly in its resolution 62/
The Committee expressed its appreciation to Vladimír Kopal (Czech Republic) for his able leadership and contributions during the forty-seventh session of the Subcommittee. 
The representatives of Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Nigeria, the Russian Federation and the United States made statements under the item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to this item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee heard a presentation entitled “Presentation of the draft treaty on the prevention of the placement of weapons in outer space and of the threat or use of force against outer space objects”, by D. Gonchar (Russian Federation). 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had considered, as a regular item of its agenda, the status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that agenda item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 31-45). 
The Committee noted that the Subcommittee had reconvened its Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space, under the chairmanship of Vassilios Cassapoglou (Greece), and that the mandate of the Working Group included the status of the United Nations treaties on outer space, review of their implementation and obstacles to their universal acceptance, as well as the promotion of space law, especially through the United Nations Programme on Space Applications (A/AC.105/763 and Corr.1, para. 118) and any new, similar issues that might be raised in discussions in the Working Group, provided that those issues fell within its existing mandate (A/AC.105/787, paras. 138 and 140). 
The Committee approved the endorsement by the Subcommittee of the report of the Working Group (A/AC.105/917, para. 43 and annex I) and of the recommendation by the Working Group to extend the mandate of the Working Group by one additional year, to 2
The Committee noted that the Subcommittee had agreed that, at its forty-eighth session, it would review the need to extend the mandate of the Working Group beyond that period. 
The Committee welcomed the information provided by delegations on the current status of the five United Nations treaties on outer space in their respective States and on the further action that those States intended to take in order to accede to or ratify those treaties. The Committee took note with satisfaction of the reports on the progress made by member States in developing their national space law. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the United Nations treaties on outer space had established a comprehensive legal framework that encouraged the exploration of outer space and supported increasingly complex activities in outer space by both governmental and private entities, with benefits for both spacefaring and non-spacefaring countries. Those delegations advocated further adherence to the outer space treaties and, to that end, welcomed the regular publication by the Secretariat of revised versions of United Nations Treaties and Principles on Outer Space and Related General Assembly Resolutions (ST/SPACE/11/Rev.2/Add.1), which provided the most current status of parties to the United Nations treaties on outer space. Those delegations were also of the view that any consideration of the negotiation of a new, comprehensive space law instrument might undermine the existing space law regime and its underlying principles. 
Other delegations expressed the view that a new, comprehensive convention on space law to further strengthen the international legal regime governing outer space activities was needed to take account of developments in space activities, such as the commercialization of space and the involvement of the private sector, and in order to prevent the militarization of outer space. Those delegations were of the view that a single, comprehensive convention could regulate all aspects of outer space activities. Those delegations welcomed the continuation, at the forty- eighth session of the Legal Subcommittee, of the discussion on the current state of international space law and possible options for its future development, as necessary. 
The view was expressed that the Subcommittee should encourage States that had accepted the core United Nations treaties on outer space to examine their legislative framework to ensure compliance. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the joint statement on the benefits of adherence to the Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies by States parties to the Agreement (A/AC.105/C.2/L.272, annex) provided a good analysis of the benefits and guarantees offered by participation in the Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies.7 Those delegations expressed the view that the thorough consideration of the joint statement by the Legal Subcommittee at its forty- eighth session might assist in finding a mutually acceptable approach on legal issues relating to the exploration of and the use of the resources of the Moon and other celestial bodies. 
One delegation welcomed the announcement of the delegation of Austria, made at the forty-seventh session of the Legal Subcommittee, that an interdisciplinary seminar on issues related to the Moon Agreement would be organized before the Subcommittee held its forty-eighth session. 
The view was expressed that the new prospects for the colonization of the Moon and the use of the Moon as a base for exploring deep space raised the need for a frank discussion on whether the Moon Agreement still held valid solutions on those issues or whether it needed to be revised in order to adapt to the new frontiers of space law, taking into account the precedent-setting value of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea8 and other international legal instruments concerning areas beyond national jurisdiction. 
The view was expressed that the Subcommittee, at its forty-eighth session, in 2009, might reflect on the issues of liability arising from contracts between private parties in which there is no public sector participation. 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had considered an item on information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law, as a regular item of its agenda. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 46-56). 
The Committee noted that the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law were important and had contributed significantly to the development of space law, and that intergovernmental organizations had an important role to play in strengthening the legal framework applicable to space activities and should therefore consider taking steps to encourage their members to adhere to the outer space treaties. Several of the treaties contained mechanisms permitting intergovernmental organizations conducting space activities to declare their acceptance of the rights and obligations under those treaties. 
Matters relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space and the character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had continued to consider, as a regular United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1363, No. 23
Ibid., vol. 1833, No. 31
item of its agenda, matters relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space and the character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of ITU. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 57-83). 
The Committee noted the progress made by the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space, which had been reconvened during the forty-seventh session of the Legal Subcommittee, under the chairmanship of José Monserrat Filho (Brazil). In accordance with the agreement reached by the Legal Subcommittee at its thirty-ninth session, endorsed by the Committee at its forty-third session and subsequently endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 62/217, the Working Group was reconvened to consider only matters relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space. 
The Committee welcomed the decision of the Working Group to suspend consideration of the issue of aerospace objects until new events warranted its resumption. 
The view was expressed that the definition and delimitation of outer space remained an important issue and that the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space should continue to consider the item. That delegation supported the proposal of the Chairman of the Working Group to organize, within the framework of the Working Group at the forty-eighth session of the Subcommittee, in 2009, a scientific meeting at which the Working Group could hear presentations by interested member States on the existing positions of States regarding the definition and delimitation of outer space, and regretted that no consensus had been reached on that proposal. 
The view was expressed that the geostationary orbit, as a limited natural resource clearly in danger of saturation, must be used rationally, efficiently, economically and equitably. That principle was fundamental to safeguarding the interests of developing countries and countries with a certain geographical position, as set out in article 44, paragraph 196.2 of the Constitution of ITU, as amended by the Plenipotentiary Conference held in Minneapolis, United States, in 1
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit was a limited natural resource with sui generis characteristics that risked saturation and that equitable access to it should therefore be guaranteed for all States, taking into account in particular the needs of developing countries and the geographical position of certain countries. 
The view was expressed that the geostationary orbit was an integral part of outer space and that, therefore, its use should be governed by the provisions of the United Nations treaties on outer space and the relevant ITU regulations. 
The view was expressed that the issue of the determination of the legal status of the geostationary orbit was linked to the issue of the definition and delimitation of outer space. 
The view was expressed that the establishment of a legal regime governing the status and the use of the geostationary orbit would help to overcome the digital divide affecting developing countries. 
The view was expressed that reaching agreement on the definition and delimitation of outer space would create certainty with respect to the sovereignty of States over their airspace and would enable the effective application of the principles of the freedom of use of outer space and of the non-appropriation of outer space. 
The view was expressed that, given the increasing use of outer space, the Subcommittee should reach a consensus on the issue of the definition and delimitation of outer space at the earliest possible opportunity because prolonged legal uncertainty on that issue would create legal complications in determining the jurisdiction and sovereignty of States. 
Review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had continued its consideration of the review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space (Assembly resolution 47/68) as a single issue/item for discussion. 
The Committee noted that an exchange of views had taken place in the Legal Subcommittee on the review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 84-93), during which reference had been made to the work currently being undertaken by the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee under the item entitled “Use of nuclear power sources in outer space”. 
Examination and review of the developments concerning the draft protocol on matters specific to space assets to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had considered a single issue/item for discussion entitled “Examination and review of the developments concerning the draft protocol on matters specific to space assets to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment”. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 94-109). 
The Committee took note of the comprehensive report on developments concerning the draft space assets protocol, delivered on behalf of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (Unidroit) by the Chairman of the committee of governmental experts for the preparation of the draft space assets protocol of Unidroit, and noted that completing work on the draft space assets protocol continued to have priority. The Committee also noted that Unidroit was making every effort to reconvene its committee of governmental experts for a third session and that consultations were being held to further progress on outstanding issues. 
The Committee was informed that the first meeting of the steering committee for the draft space assets protocol had been held in Berlin in May 2008, under the Chairmanship of Sergio Marchisio (Italy), in order to build consensus on outstanding issues and to map out the remaining steps to be taken in order to finalize the draft space assets protocol. The Committee noted that every effort was being made to convene a third session of the Unidroit committee of governmental experts in Rome in the second quarter of 2
Capacity-building in space law 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had considered, as a new single issue/item for discussion, capacity-building in space law. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 110-130). 
The Committee welcomed the agreement of the Subcommittee to include the item on capacity-building in space law on the agenda of the Subcommittee at its forty-eighth session (A/AC.105/917, para. 151). 
The Committee agreed that research, training and education in space law were of vital importance to national, regional and international efforts to further develop space activities and to increase knowledge of the legal framework within which space activities were carried out. 
The Committee emphasized the important role that the Subcommittee played in building capacity in space law. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that a number of national, regional and international efforts were being undertaken to build capacity in space law, including efforts by the African Leadership Conference on Space Science and Technology for Sustainable Development, the Asia-Pacific Space Cooperation Organization and the Space Conferences of the Americas. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Government of Thailand for its decision to organize, jointly with the Office for Outer Space Affairs, the next United Nations workshop on space law for participants from the region of Asia and the Pacific and noted that the workshop would be held in Bangkok from 24 to 27 November 2
The Committee also extended its gratitude to ESA for agreeing to co-sponsor that workshop. 
The Committee noted that the series of workshops on space law organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs served as a useful forum in which experts and authorities could share views, knowledge and experiences related to the further development of both national and international space law. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the Office for Outer Space Affairs had organized, in Vienna in December 2007, an Expert Meeting on Promoting Education in Space Law at the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations and welcomed the recommendations and conclusions contained in the report on that meeting (A/AC.105/908, paras. 8-11). The Committee also expressed its appreciation to the educators and representatives of the regional centres who were continuing to develop, by means of electronic communication and, when possible, meetings on the margins of international space- related meetings, a draft curriculum for a basic course on space law. 
The view was expressed that the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, as well as various regional space cooperation organizations and research institutions, had an important role to play in further developing a draft curriculum for a basic course on space law. 
The view was expressed that improving education in space law was a prerequisite for furthering space activities and ensuring that they were carried out in conformity with international space law. 
The view was expressed that the objectives of the series of workshops on space law might be strengthened by holding two workshops each year, the first continuing to focus on a general introduction to space law and involving the whole spectrum of regulation of space activities, the second concentrating on more specific topics of space law related to various uses of space technology and applications. The formulation of the programmes for the second workshop could take advantage of the special modules developed by the expert group established to develop a curriculum for a basic course on space law. 
The Committee invited its Chairman to contact the United Nations University with a view to exploring the possibility of including subjects related to international space law in the educational curricula of the University. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the consideration by the Subcommittee of specific measures to strengthen capacity in space law, particularly in developing countries (A/AC.105/917, para. 128), and encouraged member States, permanent observers of the Committee, intergovernmental organizations and the Office for Outer Space Affairs to consider those initiatives and to inform the Subcommittee, at its forty-eighth session, of any actions taken or planned at the national, regional or international level. 
General exchange of information on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had, in accordance with the multi-year workplan adopted by the Committee at its fiftieth session,9 considered the general exchange of information on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space, as a new agenda item. The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under that item, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 131-147). 
The Committee noted that the discussion by the Subcommittee of this agenda item would provide it with a broad picture of how States regulated their national space activities and enable the Subcommittee to examine the main developments taking place at the national level, in order to identify common principles, norms and procedures. The Committee also noted that such information would be of value to States involved in space activities in their efforts to establish a domestic regulatory framework. Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/62/20), para. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that a number of member States were continuing to develop national norms related to the regulation of the peaceful exploration and use of outer space and encouraged States to continue to submit information on their respective national legislation and regulatory frameworks. 
The view was expressed that national space legislation was of vital importance to the implementation of international legal norms and principles. That delegation was of the view that international space law remained the primary source of regulations on space activities and that it could not be substituted by norms of national space laws. 
The Committee noted that the Subcommittee would establish a working group under this agenda item at its forty-eighth session, in 2009, and welcomed the decision by the Subcommittee to elect Irmgard Marboe (Austria) as Chairperson of the working group. 
The Committee agreed that the agenda item of the Subcommittee on the general exchange of information on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space and the agenda item on capacity-building in space law were closely linked, since capacity-building efforts were important for promoting understanding of national requirements for space activities. 
Draft provisional agenda for the forty-eighth session of the Legal Subcommittee 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Legal Subcommittee had considered an item entitled “Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its forty-eighth session”. 
The Committee noted that an exchange of views had taken place in the Legal Subcommittee on proposals by member States for new items to be included on the agenda of the Subcommittee and that agreement had been reached on a proposal, to be submitted to the Committee, for the draft provisional agenda for the forty- eighth session of the Subcommittee, in 2009, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, paras. 148-161). 
The Committee welcomed the agreement by the Subcommittee to include on the agenda of the Subcommittee at its forty-eighth session, in 2009, a new single issue/item entitled “General exchange of information on national mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation measures”, which had been proposed by Italy and Ukraine and supported by several other delegations. The Committee also welcomed the agreement to retain all the single issues/items currently on the agenda of the Subcommittee for consideration at its forty-eighth session. 
The Committee welcomed the agreement of the Subcommittee to invite the European Centre for Space Law and IISL to hold a symposium on space law at its forty-eighth session. 
On the basis of the deliberations of the Legal Subcommittee at its forty- seventh session, the Committee agreed on the following draft provisional agenda for the forty-eighth session of the Subcommittee, in 2009: Regular items 
Opening of the session, election of the Chairman and adoption of the agenda. 
Statement by the Chairman. 
General exchange of views. 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space. 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non- governmental organizations relating to space law. 
Matters relating to: (a) The definition and delimitation of outer space; (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. Single issues/items for discussion 
Review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space. 
Examination and review of the developments concerning the draft protocol on matters specific to space assets to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment. 
Capacity-building in space law. 
General exchange of information on national mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation measures. Items considered under workplans 
General exchange of information on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. 2009: Examination, in a working group, of the responses received in order to develop an understanding of the manner in which Member States have regulated governmental and non-governmental space activities. New items 
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its forty-ninth session. 
The Committee endorsed the decision of the Subcommittee to reconvene, at its forty-eighth session, the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space and the Working Group on Matters Relating to the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space and to establish a working group on agenda item 11 (A/AC.105/917, para. 152). 
The Committee agreed that the Subcommittee, at its forty-eighth session, should review the need to extend the mandate of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space beyond that session of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/917, para. 153). E. Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status 
In accordance with paragraph 50 of General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Committee resumed its consideration of the item entitled “Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status”. 
The representatives of Burkina Faso, Colombia, Japan and the United States made statements under this item. 
The Committee heard a presentation entitled “JAXA industrial collaboration programme”, by T. Nagatomi (Japan). 
The publication Spinoff 2007, submitted by NASA, was made available to the Committee. 
The Committee agreed that spin-offs of space technology should be promoted because they advanced economies through the production of innovative technologies, thereby contributing to improving the quality of life of human populations. 
The Committee also agreed that spin-offs of space technology constituted a powerful engine for technological innovation and growth in both the industrial and service sectors and could be beneficially applied to achieve social and humanitarian ends. 
The view was expressed that space technology and its spin-off benefits must be used for peaceful purposes in order to improve the quality of life of populations, meet the goals of the United Nations Millennium Declaration (General Assembly resolution 55/2),2 manage limited natural resources, help solve environmental problems such as global warming and prevent and mitigate natural disasters. 
The Committee noted that space technologies were successfully utilized for the development of national communications infrastructure and in other projects aimed at reaching the goal of sustainable development. 
The Committee also noted that Governments had successfully involved the private sector in various projects in the area of spin-offs of space technology. F. Space and society 
In accordance with paragraph 51 of General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Committee continued to consider, under the agenda item entitled “Space and society”, the special theme for the focus of discussions entitled “Space and education”, in accordance with the workplan adopted by the Committee at its forty- sixth session,10 in 2
Ibid., Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/58/20), para. 239; and ibid., 
The representatives of Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Italy, Japan, Nigeria, South Africa, Spain, the Syrian Arab Republic and the United States made statements under the item. Statements were also made by the observers for the United Nations University, UNESCO, ESPI and ISPRS. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Activities of the IAF administrative committee on space and society”, by M. Heppener (IAF); (b) “Space for societal applications: the Indian context”, by A. Bhaskaranarayana (India); (c) “Space technology education in Indonesia” by E. S. Adiningsih (Indonesia); (d) “The International Year of Planet Earth”, by W. Janoschek (International Year of Planet Earth); (e) “Korean astronaut programme”, by N. Choe (Republic of Korea). 
At its 593rd meeting, on 18 June 2008, the Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs made a presentation on the education and capacity-building programme of the Office. 
The Committee noted that the Space Education Programme of UNESCO was aimed at enhancing space subjects and disciplines in schools and universities, in particular in developing countries, and raising awareness among the general public of the benefits of space technology for social, economic and cultural development. The Committee noted that UNESCO was the lead United Nations agency for the United Nations Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005-2014). 
The Committee noted that there were a number of national educational initiatives and activities aimed at using content, materials and applications unique to space activities for training students and teachers and for educating the general public on matters relating to outer space, which included the initiatives and activities of the Angkasawan and space awareness programmes of Malaysia; CONAE and the Mario Gulich Institute for Advanced Space Studies, both of Argentina; the Brazilian Space Agency and the Brazilian Society for the Advancement of Science; the Canadian Space Agency; the Iranian Space Agency; the Italian Space Agency; the General Organization of Remote Sensing of the Syrian Arab Republic; the JAXA Space Education Center of Japan; the National Space Research and Development Agency of Nigeria and the African Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education—in English Language, also based in Nigeria; and the NASA Educator Astronaut Program and Explorer Schools Program, as well as the education programmes implemented by the Science, Engineering, Mathematics and Aerospace Academy of the United States. 
The Committee noted the educational opportunities being provided by a number of national universities, including hands-on training opportunities for university and graduate students in space science and engineering. In that regard, the Committee noted the activities undertaken through the International Space Education Board, a joint initiative, launched in 2005, of the Canadian Space Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/61/20 and Corr.1), paras. 245 and 
Agency, the Centre national d’études spatiales of France, ESA, JAXA, NASA and the University Space Engineering Consortium. 
The Committee noted that a number of national tele-education initiatives were providing educators and students at all levels, including those in remote areas, with high-quality education incorporating the latest teaching resources, vocational and teacher training and adult education. 
The Committee noted that data derived from outer space and services such as remote sensing and telecommunications were improving the lives of people throughout the world, including in remote and rural areas. The Committee also noted the important applications of space technology in many fields, such as distance education, water resource management, weather forecasting and fisheries, and, in that regard, took note of the single delivery mechanism initiated by the Indian Space Research Organisation through its Village Resource Centres and the very small aperture terminals introduced by South Africa. 
The Committee noted the activities carried out at the regional level for capacity-building through education and training in space science and technology applications for sustainable development, including the achievements of the African Regional Centre for Space Science and Technology Education—in English Language, the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum and the pro tempore secretariat of the Fifth Space Conference of the Americas. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that, at the global level, a large number of educational and outreach activities and programmes for children, young people and the general public were being established by national space and educational organizations and international organizations to promote awareness of the benefits of space science and technology and to encourage children to consider careers in the fields of mathematics and science. 
The Committee noted the role played by the International Space Station in education and in reaching out to education communities worldwide. 
The Committee noted that World Space Week, observed from 4 to 10 October each year pursuant to General Assembly resolution 54/68 of 6 December 1999, contributed to the development of education and raised awareness about outer space, in particular among young people and the general public. 
The Committee was of the view that sharing scientific and technical knowledge and achievements in the field of space activities would have a positive impact on future generations. 
The Committee recalled General Assembly resolution 55/2 on the United Nations Millennium Declaration and noted that illiteracy and a lack of adequate education continued to constitute major problems for developing countries. The United Nations Programme on Space Applications could play a useful role in supporting education and training for capacity-building in developing countries and in strengthening international cooperation. 
The view was expressed that consideration should be given to specific means of overcoming, including through the role of education, the potential shortage of scientists, mathematicians and engineers facing both developed and developing countries in the coming decade. 
The view was expressed that States should be encouraged to improve the dissemination of space-related educational materials in order to increase general awareness of the importance of the use of space technology for attaining sustainable development. 
The view was expressed that it might be useful to identify specific priority areas, beyond the exchange of information, where international cooperation relating to space education could be further strengthened, such as having the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, serve as regional focal points for the training of primary and secondary school teachers in the use of space materials in teaching. That delegation expressed the view that any priority areas of space education identified by the Committee could then be considered as special themes under the agenda item entitled “Space and society” or in symposiums held on the margins of future sessions of the Committee. 
The view was expressed that the studies by ESPI on political issues regarding the exploration and use of outer space were of great significance. That delegation urged ESPI to consider extending its scope of studies to Latin America. 
The Committee noted that the General Assembly, in its resolution 62/200 of 19 December 2007, had declared 2009 International Year of Astronomy and that a number of States were planning to use the Year to highlight the importance of the use of space science and technology. The Committee was informed that presentations about those initiatives would be made at the forty-sixth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
The Committee agreed that, in view of the importance of space and education, it would continue to consider the special theme at its fifty-second session, in 2
G. Space and water 
In accordance with paragraph 52 of General Assembly resolution 62/217, the Committee continued its consideration of the agenda item on space and water. 
The representatives of Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Iraq, Japan, Spain and the United States made statements under the item. 
The Committee heard the following technical presentations under the item: (a) “Space perspective on ocean and inland waters”, by A. Neumann (Germany); (b) “Water for livelihood: watershed development strategy through space”, by S. K. Shivakumar (India). 
The Committee noted the broad spectrum of water-related issues, ranging from too little water, reducing populations and consequently food production, to too much water, causing floods and destruction. Space technology and its applications had an expanding potential to obtain information useful for scientific research on water-related issues, for the support of sound water management practices and for policy- and decision-making. 
The Committee noted the large number of space-borne platforms that addressed water-related issues, including those at the planning and theoretical stages. Data gathered by such platforms had great potential for expanding the use of applications of space technology to address water-related issues on Earth. 
The Committee noted various national, regional and international water-related activities, including the Global Precipitation Measurement project of Japan and the United States; the international projects on the Iraqi marshlands; the International Centre for Water Hazard and Risk Management; the International Flood Network and its Global Flood Alert System; the SABIA-mar joint project of Brazil and Argentina for oceanographic research and for studying water resources, mainly in coastal regions; the joint project of Argentina and Chile for monitoring snow and glaciers in the central Andean region; the joint programme of Algeria, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Tunisia for monitoring north Saharan water resources; the Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission, using Earth observation products obtained from the Indian remote sensing satellite system; the Sentinel Asia project; the ESA Terrestrial Initiative of Global Environmental Research (TIGER), focusing on the African region and conducted in cooperation with UNESCO; and contributions to the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) of the Group on Earth Observations (GEO) addressing the “societal benefit area” of water. 
The Committee noted the recent discovery that the global water cycle directly affected precipitation and water resource management nationally and regionally, which demonstrated that obtaining an understanding of the global water cycle through combined space-based and in situ observations was vital in order to be able to predict the future of the global water cycle and improve the quality of people’s lives. Global water cycle observations and their data might soon be used for daily weather forecasts, river management and food production systems. 
The Committee noted that space technology could be used in combination with non-space technologies to contribute to monitoring and mitigating the effects of flood disasters and to improving the timeliness and accuracy of forecasts. For example, space technology had played a significant role in helping to control the “quake lakes” that had resulted from the earthquake in the Sichuan Province of China in May 2008 and threatened the lives of millions of people. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to Saudi Arabia for its support of the United Nations/Saudi Arabia/United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization International Conference on the Use of Space Technology for Water Management, held in Riyadh from 15 to 19 March 2
The Committee took note of the establishment of the Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz international prize for water, which was a significant contribution to addressing global water issues. It also noted that space technology applications would be the topic of one of the four “specialized branch” prizes in the fourth round of the competition (2008-2010). 
The Committee agreed to continue its consideration of the item at its fifty- second session, in 2
H. International cooperation in promoting the use of space-derived geospatial data for sustainable development 
In accordance with the agreement reached by the Committee at its forty- ninth session and endorsed by the General Assembly in paragraph 54 of its resolution 62/217, the Committee considered this item under a multi-year workplan.11 According to the workplan, at its fifty-first session the Committee would hear expert presentations on experiences in the establishment of appropriate national infrastructure for space-derived geospatial data collection, processing and application, including training, technical infrastructure and financial requirements, and institutional arrangements. 
The representatives of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Nigeria, the Syrian Arab Republic and the United States made statements under the item. A statement was also made by the representative of OCHA, on behalf of the United Nations Geographic Information Working Group (UNGIWG). 
The Committee heard the following technical presentations under the item: (a) “United Nations Spatial Data Infrastructure (UNSDI): time for partnerships”, by S. Ulgen (OCHA); (b) “Use of geospatial data for sustainable development: the Indian context”, by K. Radhakrishnan (India); (c) “National and international collaboration in geospatial data utilization for sustainable development in Nigeria”, by J. Akinyede (Nigeria); (d) “Acceleration of the establishment of the Indonesian geospatial data infrastructure”, by A. Santoso (Indonesia). 
The Committee noted that a number of national, regional and global initiatives were addressing issues related to the use of space-derived geospatial data for sustainable development. 
The Committee took note of the Global Spatial Data Infrastructure (GSDI) Association, the umbrella organization through which the international community was sharing experience in the development of spatial data infrastructure, and the GSDI small grants programme, which had directly benefited many African countries. It also took note of the Mesoamerican Regional Visualization and Monitoring System (SERVIR), based in Panama City, for monitoring the environment, improving land use and agricultural practices and assisting local officials in responding faster to natural disasters. Following the success of the SERVIR project in Central America, an African node was being established in Nairobi. 
The Committee took note of the establishment of national spatial data infrastructure and related national geo-information policies in several member States. 
The Committee noted developments related to global open data access policies and access to geospatial data, provided either free of charge or at a nominal cost. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) was planning to provide the international community, free of charge, with electronic access to all Landsat scenes held in the USGS-managed national archive of global scenes dating back to Landsat-1, launched in 1
By February 2009, any archive scene selected by a Ibid., Sixty-first Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/61/20), paras. 301-303; and ibid., Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/62/20), paras. 265 and 
user would be automatically processed to make it a standard product and prepared for electronic retrieval. The Committee also noted that several other ongoing or planned satellite missions would disseminate their data sets, in accordance with open data access policies. 
The Committee noted that GEONETCast, a near real-time, near-global, satellite-based environmental information delivery system developed within the framework of GEO, had significant potential to address bottlenecks in data dissemination because it could, through the use of low-cost receiving stations, enhance access to a wide range of information and reach users in developing countries with limited or no access to high-speed Internet connections. 
The Committee took note of the progress of UNGIWG in the development of the United Nations Spatial Data Infrastructure (UNSDI). It noted the establishment of national coordination offices for UNSDI by the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Netherlands and Spain. The Committee welcomed the continued development of UNSDI and invited the secretariat of UNGIWG to report to it at its fifty- second session, in 2009, on the progress made. 
The Committee noted the significant societal benefits of using timely and high-quality, space-derived geospatial data for sustainable development in application areas such as agriculture, deforestation assessment, disaster monitoring, drought relief and land management. While those benefits were widely known, it was recognized that there was still a need to enhance capacity-building in many countries to ensure that geospatial data could be exploited to the fullest extent possible. The Committee also noted that several member States and non- governmental organizations were contributing to such capacity-building activities. 
The view was expressed that open data access and open source software represented the best approach to combine the efforts of developed and developing countries to promote the use of space-derived geospatial data for sustainable development. That delegation was of the view that remote sensing data was a public good and that the sharing of data should be promoted as openly as possible, on a non-discriminatory basis and on reasonable cost terms. 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with the multi-year workplan agreed upon at its forty-ninth session, it would evaluate, at its fifty-second session, the activities undertaken within the United Nations system that were directly related to the use of space-derived geospatial information for sustainable development and consider ways and means of highlighting the links existing among those activities and of giving them stronger international recognition. The Committee also noted that, in accordance with the multi-year workplan, it would draft a report containing recommendations on ways and means of fostering international cooperation with a view to building up national infrastructure to use space-derived geospatial data. 
The Committee requested the Secretariat to prepare a summary of the discussions in 2007 and 2008 on this agenda item, for consideration at its fifty- second session, in 2009, and to include information on activities undertaken within the United Nations system that were directly related to the use of space-derived geospatial information for sustainable development. I. Other matters 
The representatives of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, the Czech Republic, France, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Nigeria, Romania, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Switzerland, the Syrian Arab Republic, the United States, Uruguay and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under this item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to this item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
Proposed strategic framework for the programme on the peaceful uses of outer space for the period 2010-2011 
The Committee had before it for its consideration the proposed strategic framework for the programme on the peaceful uses of outer space for the period 2010-2011 (A/63/6 (Prog. 5)). 
The Committee agreed on the proposed strategic framework and recommended that the following paragraphs be amended to read as follows: (a) Indicators of achievement (5.4 (d)(i)). “Increased number of countries requesting assistance in defining disaster management plans and policies with regard to the use of space-based technologies”; (b) Strategy (5.5 (a)). “Promoting greater awareness of and strengthening the international legal regime governing outer space activities and its implementation, including the development of national space legislation, and promoting increased opportunities for education in space law”. 
Composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the period 2010-2011 
In accordance with paragraph 55 of General Assembly resolution 62/217 and pursuant to the measures relating to the working methods of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies12 as endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 52/56 of 10 December 1997, the Committee considered the composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the period 2010-2
The Committee noted that the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States had endorsed the candidature of Raimundo González (Chile) for the office of Second Vice-Chairman/Rapporteur of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for the period 2010-2011 (A/AC.105/2008/CRP.10). 
The Committee noted that the Group of Western European and Other States had endorsed the candidature of Ulrich Huth (Germany) for the office of Chairman of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee for the period 2010-2011 (A/AC.105/2008/CRP.11). 
The Committee noted that the Group of Asian States had endorsed the candidature of Ahmad Talebzadeh (Islamic Republic of Iran) for the office of Ibid., Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/52/20), annex I; see also ibid., Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/58/20), annex II, appendix III. Chairman of the Legal Subcommittee for the period 2010-2011 (A/AC.105/2008/CRP.9). 
The Committee noted that the Group of African States had agreed that South Africa should hold the position of First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for the period 2010-2011 and that its candidate would be nominated in the near future. 
The Committee urged the Group of Eastern European States to nominate its candidate for the office of Chairman of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for the period 2010-2011 in the near future. 
Future role and activities of the Committee 
The Committee recalled that, at its fiftieth session, in 2007, the Chairman of the Committee had submitted a working paper entitled “Future role and activities of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space” (A/AC.105/L.268 and Corr.1) and that fruitful discussions related to that working paper had been held.13 
The Committee had before it a working paper submitted by the Czech Republic, entitled “Comments on the working paper submitted by the Chairman on the future role and activities of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (A/AC.105/L.268 and Corr.1)” (A/AC.105/L.272). 
The Committee noted that the delegation of France had informed the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, at its forty-fifth session, that it would propose a new item, entitled “Long-term sustainability of space activities”, to be included on the agenda of the Committee at its fifty-second session, for consideration under a multi- year workplan for the period 2009-2
The Committee also noted that an informal working group established by Gérard Brachet (France), comprising representatives of some member States and space-related intergovernmental organizations, including commercial telecommunications providers, had held meetings in Paris on 7 and 8 February 2008 to discuss issues related to the long-term sustainability of space activities. The working group had decided to hold additional meetings and, in due course, to prepare a comprehensive report. Based on that report, the delegation of France intended to present to the Committee, at its fifty-second session, in 2009, a revised proposal for a multi-year agenda item. 
Some delegations expressed their support for that initiative and indicated their interest in contributing to the work of the informal working group. 
Some delegations noted with concern that the proposed topic for that new agenda item included several issues that the Committee and its subcommittees were already considering under existing agenda items. Those delegations were of the view that it was therefore essential to define the exact scope of the proposed agenda item to avoid duplication of efforts. 
The view was expressed that the proposed agenda item was relevant to the work of the Committee and appeared to attract great interest, in particular from commercial telecommunications providers. That delegation also noted that Ibid., Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/62/20), paras. 288-
important aspects of space weather and the sustainability of space activities had not yet been considered by the Committee. 
The Committee noted the invitation extended by the delegation of France to member States to participate in the second meeting of the informal working group, on the margins of the 59th International Astronautical Congress, to be held in Glasgow, United Kingdom, from 29 September to 3 October 2
The Committee took note of the statement made by the French delegation, on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the European Union, on the European Union joint reply in view of a code of conduct for outer space, transmitted to the General Assembly in September 2007 (A/62/114/Add.1), in response to General Assembly resolutions 61/58 of 6 December 2006 on prevention of an arms race in outer space and 61/75 of 6 December 2006 on transparency and confidence-building measures in outer space activities. 
The Committee noted that the joint reply included the following main principles and objectives of such a code of conduct, in particular: (a) A commitment to make progress towards adherence to and full implementation of the relevant existing treaties, codes of conduct and guidelines regarding the peaceful use of space; (b) The development of best practices for safer traffic management; (c) The development of measures to strengthen mutual understanding and confidence among spacefaring nations and actors and to develop means of communication and consultation among them in order to avoid accidents and collisions involving space objects; (d) The code of conduct for outer space would be voluntary and the European Union considered it to be a contribution towards an international non- binding code of conduct for outer space activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that there was a clear conceptual link between the activities proposed by France related to the long-term sustainability of space activities and the activities undertaken by the European Union related to the code of conduct. It was therefore essential to ensure proper coordination to avoid duplication of efforts. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the link between the code of conduct and the existing body of international space law needed to be clarified to avoid the danger of the fragmentation of international law and weakening of the obligatory nature of the United Nations space treaties. 
Some delegations expressed their interest in contributing to the work on the code of conduct currently taking place at the expert level. Those delegations were of the view that the interests of developing countries needed to be taken into account adequately. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the code of conduct proposed by the European Union required an in-depth analysis to be carried out within the framework of the Committee, with particular attention being paid to clarifying the aims and purposes of the code and its scope, legal status and relationship to the space law treaties in force. 
The Committee was of the view that all those matters merited further consideration by the Committee. 
Proposed new items on the agenda of the Committee 
The Committee noted that the proposal made by the delegation of France to include a new multi-year item, entitled “Long-term sustainability of space activities”, on the agenda of the Committee at its fifty-second session had been postponed and that France would present a revised proposal to the Committee at its fifty-second session, in 2
The Committee noted a proposal made by the delegation of India, supported by other delegations, to include on the agenda of the Committee a new item, entitled “Space and climate change”. The Committee agreed to include that new item on the agenda of the Committee at its fifty-second session. 
The Committee noted a proposal made by the delegation of the United States, supported by other delegations, to include on the agenda of the Committee a new item, entitled “Use of space technology in the United Nations system”. Under that agenda item, the Chairman of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities should report to the Committee on the work of the Inter-Agency Meeting, and United Nations entities should be invited to inform the Committee of their space- related work. The Committee agreed to include this new item on the agenda of the Committee at its fifty-second session. 
Observer status 
The Committee noted that the European Organisation for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere and the European Telecommunications Satellite Organization, both intergovernmental organizations, had applied for permanent observer status with the Committee and that related correspondence and the statutes of those organizations had been made available during the current session of the Committee in conference room papers A/AC.105/2008/CRP.7 and A/AC.105/2008/CRP.4 respectively. 
The Committee also noted the applications for permanent observer status with the Committee by the following international non-governmental organizations: the International Institute of Space Law, the Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water and the Secure World Foundation. The Committee had before it related correspondence and the statutes of those organizations in conference room papers A/AC.105/2008/CRP.5, A/AC.105/2008/CRP.8 and A/AC.105/2008/CRP.6 respectively. 
The Committee decided to recommend granting permanent observer status to the European Organisation for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere and the European Telecommunications Satellite Organization. 
The Committee decided to recommend granting permanent observer status to the International Institute of Space Law, the Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water and the Secure World Foundation, on the understanding that, in accordance with the agreement of the Committee at its thirty- third session concerning observer status for non-governmental organizations and in accordance with the practice established by the Committee, those entities would apply for consultative status with the Economic and Social Council. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the granting of permanent observer status with the Committee to non-governmental organizations should be undertaken in an orderly and regulated manner, in compliance with the guidelines established by the Committee at its thirty-third session, in 1990, and that a review should also be carried out of the way in which those organizations had contributed to the work of the Committee following their admission. 
The view was expressed that the Committee, as part of the United Nations system, should observe the procedure relating to the obtaining of consultative status with the Economic and Social Council, in accordance with Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/31, and that the Secretariat should submit a list of the permanent observers of the Committee and of the requirements met by those observers to date. 
The view was expressed that the Committee had complied fully with its guidelines on the granting of permanent observer status to non-governmental organizations. 
The Committee agreed on the need to review, in the near future, its rules and procedures on the granting of permanent observer status, as well as the duration of such status, and agreed that non-governmental organizations that had been granted permanent observer status with the Committee should inform the Committee of any progress made in obtaining consultative status with the Economic and Social Council. J. Schedule of work of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies 
