What is Safran doing to reduce the environmental impact of air traffic? What are the Group companies doing to create sustainable aviation? What are the initial achievements? Find out what's happening at Safran to reduce carbon emissions from the aviation industry and air transport.
The world’s second largest aircraft equipment manufacturer, Safran supplies airframers with key systems including landing gear, wheels and brakes, wiring, avionics, navigation systems, evacuation systems and much more. In aviation history, its technologies have often been cutting-edge advancements. Now, the Group’s equipment is becoming lighter and going electric to help make air travel safer and more environmentally friendly.
Landing systems
Safran designs, produces and supports landing gear, wheels, brakes and complete landing systems for commercial mainline and regional airplanes, helicopters and business and military aircraft. 
Calling on our advanced engineering skills, we provide products for a number of today’s leading aircraft, including the Airbus A320, A320neo, A330, A350 XWB and A400M, the Boeing 737 Next-Generation, 737 MAX, 777 and 787 Dreamliner, the Rafale, Eurofighter Typhoon, F-18 and other fighters, and many more. Back in the 1980s, Safran pioneered the use of carbon brakes on aircraft as a higher-performance replacement for conventional steel brakes. This technical revolution resulted in lighter weight, faster cooling and more durable brakes.
Electrical systems
Safran has developed acknowledged expertise in all aircraft electrical systems, including power generation, distribution and conversion, electrical wiring interconnect systems (EWIS), including clamps and wiring protection, electric motors and system integration. The world leader in aircraft wiring, we are actively involved in all aspects of “more electric” aircraft, as well as hybrid and all-electric propulsion systems on new platforms such as electrical vertical takeoff and landing (eVTOL) aircraft – with testing already underway on some aircraft of this type.
Avionics
For more than 50 years now, Safran has offered a wide range of avionics solutions. We apply our expertise, recognized worldwide, to commercial airplanes and helicopters, with cockpit equipment, computers and critical software, electromechanical actuators, navigation, visual perception and data management. Our state-of-the-art technologies give pilots aid, flexibility and precision, while ensuring maximum flight safety.
Aerosystems
An acknowledged expert in aircraft systems for flight and ground safety, Safran offers a wide range of products including safety systems (evacuation slides, life rafts and vests, emergency arresting systems, oxygen masks), control systems (fuel management, telemetry) and fluid management. These products are used on commercial mainline and regional airplanes, helicopters, business and military aircraft. We outfit aircraft including the Airbus A350 XWB and A320neo, the Airbus Helicopters H160, Boeing 737 MAX, Sukhoi Superjet 100, Comac C919 and Dassault Aviation Rafale.
All Safran press releases
Finance History of the dividend amount
Safran is aware of its responsibilities and has given itself the mission of making a lasting change in the air transport industry to build the world of the future. To achieve these goals, the Group is relying on its corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts, which are at the heart of Safran’s development strategy and contribute to its core purpose. Taking into account the expectations of all of the Group’s stakeholders’ and led by employee-driven initiatives, our CSR policy is built on four pillars: decarbonize aerospace, be an exemplary employer, embody responsible industry and affirm our commitment to citizenship.
Environment and climate: a strategic priority
Safran is pursuing an ambitious policy to address the climate challenge and contribute to the transition to carbon-neutral aviation by 2050. As an aeronautical equipment supplier, the Group also strives to limit the CO2 emissions associated with its manufacturing processes.


Read more
The highest anti-corruption and commercial compliance standards
Safran ensures that its business is conducted in compliance with the highest standards of transparency, integrity and professionalism. These principles are implemented through uncompromising requirements in fighting corruption and ensuring compliance in business interactions.


Read more
An exemplary employer
Because its employees are its most precious asset, Safran pursues a proactive policy in favor of equality and diversity, and is committed to the highest standard  of health and safety at work.


Read more
Philanthropy: promoting social cohesion and equality
Safran is involved in sponsorship initiatives both directly and via its two Corporate Foundations in support of social and professional reintegration, educational assistance, working with young people dealing with the effects of disability, support for exceptional young musicians, etc.


Read more
Delivering the highest levels of quality
A Group that designs critical high-technology products and systems needs to provide its customers with the highest levels of quality and ensure the safety of the end user. To achieve this objective, all Safran companies adhere to the relevant standards applicable to their professions.


View all approvals and certifications
Exploring the infinite resources of space and mastering technologies is a key challenge on the political, economic, industrial and cultural levels. For more than 50 years now, Safran has developed and coordinated a wide range of enabling technologies for rocket propulsion systems, high-performance space optics and modular radio-frequency systems to control satellites and space probes, among other things.
Launch vehicles
Safran has continuously shaped the future of space access over the last 40 years by developing propulsion systems that set the standard in cost and performance for the successive versions of the Ariane launch vehicle : up to 10,700 kilos into GTO, orbiting at an altitude of 36,000 kilometers (about 22,500 miles). Satellites are now indispensable for a wide range of applications, whether commercial (telecommunications, television, Internet access, etc.), scientific (space exploration, Earth observation, resource management, etc.), dual application (geolocation) or defense (surveillance, etc.). ArianeGroup (the 50/50 joint company between Safran and Airbus) is now prime contractor for Europe’s Ariane 5 and Ariane 6 launchers, with responsibility for design, production and marketing (via subsidiary Arianespace), as well as the missiles in France’s ocean-going nuclear deterrent force. Ariane 5 is the most reliable satellite launcher in the world, having set the record of more than 80 successful launches in a row.
Satellites
Safran designs and produces thrusters and propulsion subsystems for all phases of a satellite’s life, from orbital positioning to deorbiting. We’re a pioneer in electric propulsion, which helps reduce launch costs and environmental impact. Safran continously invests in research, while carrying out a wide range of studies for the French and European space agencies, to maintain our technological head start and support both commercial and scientific missions.
Ground stations
Safran designs and produces modular radio-frequency (RF) systems to control satellites and space probes (especially via our Cortex line of modems), as well as for telemetry from launch vehicles and observation satellite sensors. Our WeTrackTM system for the surveillance and tracking of objects in orbit is an unrivaled solution for space situational awareness and communications.
Space optics
Safran offers a complete range of high-performance optics and high-precision opto-mechanical equipment, spanning design, production and integration, for satellites, large telescopes and high-energy lasers. In particular, we make mirrors for major astronomy programs, such as the Extremely Large Telescope (ELT), which will be the most powerful optical telescope in the world when it enters service, and the Apollon giant laser.
The SAFRAN Site is provided by Safran and Safran companies (hereinafter "Site").     
Safran is an international high-technology group, operating in the aviation (propulsion, equipment and interiors), defense and space markets. Its core purpose is to contribute to a safer, more sustainable world, where air transport is more environmentally friendly, comfortable and accessible. Safran has a global presence, with 83 000 employees and sales of 19.0 billion euros in 2022, and holds, alone or in partnership, world or regional leadership positions in its core markets. Safran undertakes research and development programs to maintain the environmental priorities of its R&T and innovation roadmap.
Find out more about the Group’s companies


Our companies and joint-ventures
Discover a selection of our best slideshows and pictures
Present in all segments of the market, Safran participates in the country’s major aviation programs and supports all Chinese airlines in their daily operations. Every year, over 650 million people in China fly on aircraft equipped by Safran.
Aircraft Engines
An aircraft engine manufacturer for 110 years, Safran is largely present in China. With a sales team representative based in China, Safran Aircraft Engines is involved in Chinese airlines and lessors’ CFM56® and LEAP® engine sales campaigns as the parent companies of CFM International (a 50/50 joint company between Safran Aircraft Engine and GE). To support the C919 program’s engine development and integration, more than 20 people from Safran are located in Shanghai on COMAC’s site.
Created in 2005, Safran Aircraft Engines Suzhou is specialized in the machining and assembly of low-pressure modules and parts for the CFM56 and LEAP engines. Founded in 2006, Safran Aircraft Engines Guiyang produces low-pressure turbine blades, seals and vanes for CFM56 and LEAP aircraft engines.


Discover the LEAP 1-C aircraft engine
Created in 1999 in Chengdu, Sichuan Service Aero-engine Maintenance Co. Ltd, (SSAMC, a joint venture between Air China and CFM International) offers a wide range of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services in China for both CFM56 & LEAP series engines. 
Through its training center - Aero Engine Maintenance Training Center (AEMTC), created in 1996 in partnership with CFM International, GE, China Aviation Supplies (CAS), the Civil Aviation Flying University of China (CAFUC) and the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC), Safran also has trained about 15,000 mechanics from all over Asia in the maintenance and repair of CFM56 and LEAP engines.
Transmission Systems
As the world's leading supplier of power transmissions for mainline commercial jets with over 100 seats, Safran has operated in China for over 30 years and provides the power transmission systems on the CFM56, LEAP, Trent700, Trent XWB and BR Family engines powering aircraft deployed by Chinese airlines and business jet operators. Safran’s power transmission systems are on board the COMAC C919 single-aisle commercial jet. Safran also provides Chinese helicopter manufacturers with power transmission systems.
Nacelles
Located in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Suzhou and Hongkong, Safran Nacelles’ Customer Support teams provide assistance for all nacelles products in service in China. A dedicated team is also located at COMAC engineering center working closely with the customer on C919’s nacelle and thrust reverser. 
In 2022, Safran opened a new nacelle MRO station in Suzhou, offering OEM* guaranteed repairs of nacelles and thrust reversers for the fleets of Airbus A330ceo, A320neo aircraft equipped with CFM International’s** LEAP-1A engines.
Safran Nacelles launched a new integration site in 2023 in the Tianjin Free Trade Zone, right next to the Airbus A320neo FAL (Final Assembly Line). With a surface area of 5,000 m2 and some twenty employees, it will be able to integrate and deliver 90 propulsion units per year from 2024.
To strengthen its global supply chain in the nacelle business, Safran has formed a partnership with HAIC (an AVIC subsidiary) and develops its local supply chain to prepare for the ramp-up of the C919 program.
 
* OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer.
** CFM International is a 50/50 joint venture between Safran Aircraft Engines and GE.
Helicopter engines
Safran is the leading helicopter engine manufacturer in China with over 600 helicopter engines in operation, 40 years of cooperation with the Chinese industry and facilities in Beijing, Tianjin, Xi’an and Shenzhen. 
Safran engines power western helicopters as well as Chinese AVIC helicopters operating in China. In recent years, Safran has significantly reinforced its MRO support activities and opened a maintenance center in Tianjin in 2013 to support the Arrius, Arriel and Makila engines operated in the region.
Safran has jointly developed and built the WZ16 engine (also known as the Ardiden 3C) with Dongan and HAPRI, both parts of the AECC consortium. Featured on the AVIC AC352 helicopter, the WZ16 is the first civilian aero engine to be entirely certified by the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC).


Discover the Ardiden 3C helicopter engine
Landing Systems
Safran' wheels and brakes business entered into Chinese market in early 90s.
Founded in 2002, the Safran Landing Systems plant in Suzhou manufactures medium-sized landing gear parts, subassemblies and assemblies. 
In 2016, Safran Landing Systems and China Eastern Airlines created XIESA, a landing gear MRO joint venture designed to offer a high level of local service for the Chinese market. Having received CAAC maintenance license in September 2019, XIESA is able to overhaul landing gears and components (up to 150+ shipsets per year). 
Beijing is also home to the Group’s first support center dedicated to Chinese customers, founded by Safran Landing Systems in 2020, in order to strengthen local support services.
Electrical Systems
Safran provides electrical systems to major Chinese aircraft programs such as C919, MA700 and MA600. 
SAIFEI, the joint-venture between Safran Electrical & Power and SAMC-COMAC, was created in 2012 for the development, production and support of the Electrical Wiring Interconnection Systems (EWIS) cabling system on the COMAC C919 aircraft.
Safran is also a tier-one supplier for the MA700 main and auxiliary generation power systems, and provides Ram Air Turbine (RAT) to the emergency electrical power system made by AVIC Nanjing Engineering Institute of Aircraft System (NEIAS). 
Safran also supplies the power generation systems to the MA600 aircraft.


SAIFEI
Avionics
Safran avionics business operations in China date back to 1980, when Safran transferred the license for the AP155 autopilot to Lanzhou Flight Control Co. (AVIC LANFEI), to equip the Z9 helicopter/Dolphin. Safran also provides electromechanical actuators and Attitude & Heading Reference System (AHRS) to the AC352 – the Chinese version of the EC175.
Additionally, Safran provides cockpit solutions, electrical thrust reverser control systems and FADEC full authority digital engine control units1 to the C919. Safran also equips the ARJ21 with flight deck control systems, control panels and dimming controls, thrust control quadrant systems and horizontal stabilizer trim actuators2. Safran cockpit solutions and windshield and wiper systems are also present on the MA60 and MA700 turboprop regional aircraft programs led by AVIC XAC. To improve their fleet management, most of Chinese airlines use Safran Cassiopée AGS services to analyze their flight data.
1Safran is a tier 2 supplier through Parker Aerospace.
2Via FADEC International, a Safran Electronics & Defense /BAE Systems Joint Venture.
Engine test cells
Safran has provided engine test equipment and facilities for several Chinese customers for more than 25 years. With a dedicated local team, Safran offers all kinds of support and maintenance services, from preventive to curative maintenance requirements.
Safran is the biggest supplier in test cells utilities and services in China with customers located in Shanghai, Chengdu, Beijing, Zhuhai and Xiamen. Safran has also built, under contract with AECC CAE, two new development test cells for the first Chinese commercial turbofan engine, the CJ1000, and a turboshaft facility at Dongan in Harbin.
Aerosystems products and equipment
A majority of civil aircraft (commercial and cargo) flying or produced in China are equipped with Safran Aerosystems products: evacuation slides, life vests and rafts, oxygen systems, and other equipment related to fluid management. The Group’s aerosystems equipment are on board the C919, ARJ21, MA60 and MA700 programs, as well as civil and government helicopters.
With a dedicated team in China and a strong MRO network in Asia, Safran provides reliable aerosystems products and continuous support to all Chinese customers.
Optics and navigation for industrial sectors
Safran Electronics & Defense is very active in high performance optics and navigation for industrial sectors through its two subsidiaries Safran Reosc and Safran Colibrys. Safran Reosc has already taken part in several projects in cooperation with public or private partners in China, such as optics for the semiconductor industry. Safran Colibrys provides accelerometers and MEMS sensors for multiple applications, such as seismic monitoring, transport and energy.
Aircraft seats
Almost all Airbus, Boeing, COMAC and Embraer aircraft are equipped with Safran seats, ranging from Economy, Premium Economy, Business class and First class seats to flight crew seats. With a Safran Seats Support and Services team and a business development team located in China, Safran provides the after-sales support of all Safran Seats products to Chinese customers. Safran also participates actively to Chinese aircraft programs with its pilot and crew seats equipping the C919, and pilot, crew and passenger seats installed on the ARJ21.
Aircraft cabin
Safran is a key supplier of BFE cabin equipment to over 20 Chinese airlines and has leading positions in cabin products, including galleys, front-row monuments, electrical inserts and trolleys. 
Safran is also a tier-one supplier for the COMAC C919 armored cockpit doors, galleys and lavatories.
In 2019, Safran Cabin signed a partnership agreement with Chinese partner XiZi to enhance its presence in China and its expertise with local supply chain and manufacturing resources.
Passenger solutions
Safran is a key supplier of in-flight entertainment (IFE) equipment designed for both Airbus and Boeing aircraft models. China Southern is the first operating airline in China with an A350 aircraft equipped with Safran IFE system. 
Safran water and waste management systems are largely installed in China on the Airbus A380, A320CEO/NEO, Boeing 777, 787, 737 Next-Generation, AVIC MA60 and MA700, COMAC ARJ21 and C919.
Build A Career You Can Be Proud Of
In China, Safran offers a wide range of positions across several categories – sales; engineering; research, design & development; production and customer relations – all with the potential for a dynamic future. 
Safran understands that its employees are a vital component to sustainable success – which is why the Group regularly seeks out the “best and brightest” individuals to support its expanding operations both in China and overseas. When you join Safran, the transformation continues: you have the chance to expand technical skills, shape your career, and experience opportunities for professional variety and personal development.
Your Career Development Is Our Priority
Working at Safran means working in an exciting, high-tech environment where you can constantly consolidate and enhance your skills and expertise.
We provide support and training to ensure that you succeed in your new position, and that your integration goes as smoothly as possible.The Safran training center in Asia was founded in 2012 in China, and provides training programs to all employees in Asia.
At Safran, you will also find an enriching multi-cultural working environment. 
Additionally, Safran strongly encourages you to capitalize on mobility within the Group, whether between companies, jobs or countries.
Supporting Mechanics and Universities
Safran is involved in training programs for engineers, reflecting its ongoing commitment to the development of the Chinese aviation industry. Safran’s Aero Engine Maintenance Training Center (AEMTC) has trained about 15,000  mechanics from all over Asia in the maintenance and repair of CFM56 engines since 1996. 
In 2005, Safran was the first industrial partner to create the Ecole Centrale of Beijing, part of Beihang University. Safran has also teamed up with major French and Chinese aeronautical engineering schools and the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC) to create the Sino-European Institute of Civil Aviation (SIAE) in Tianjin. Safran is one of the founding members of the SPEIT engineering school (partnership between Paris Tech and Shanghai Jiaotong University) in Shanghai, created in 2013.
Safran is a French-registered company, listed on NYSE Euronext Paris. Its share is part of the CAC 40 French stock market index, and of the European market index, Euro Stoxx 50. An Executive Committee representing the Group's different businesses implements the strategic objectives defined by the Board of Directors. This governance principle guarantees a balance of power, and ensures Safran’s agility to meet the changing requirements of its economic, financial and competitive environment.
As a world leader, Safran works to rise to the challenge of the moment with breakthrough technologies that will usher in the age of carbon-free aeronautics and play a decisive role in shaping the future. A significant share of the Group’s employees are involved in Research & Development programs that explore new areas of innovation. The number of patents filed by Safran is growing year on year and the Group’s position as the world’s third largest aerospace player, excluding aircraft manufacturers, is largely attributable to this capacity to innovate.
As the world's oldest aircraft engine manufacturer, Safran has taken shape gradually through the association of iconic and innovative companies in the aviation, space and defense sectors.
Discover all the news from Safran
Safran is recruiting! Find all our job offers on our website.
Are you passionate about technology? Come invent the solutions of tomorrow in the aerospace and defense industry, with an international group where innovation, teamwork, and continuing, daily education are fundamental values. Join us!
Given the societal, climate and digital challenges that are transforming the aviation industry, we are keen to take on our own responsibilities and build a sustainable future by being the company spearheading the transition over to carbon-free aviation. A project of this scale can only succeed thanks to the sheer diversity of our talents, united by a unique team spirit, a passion to embrace challenges and a desire to write a new chapter in the history of aviation.
Four People Fundamentals underpin life at Safran, so that each and every person can be part of the team:

Promoting diversity and inclusion
Developing skills and building opportunities
Creating a trustworthy work place
Promoting collaboration and mutual support
Commitments
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is at the heart of Safran's development strategy and is in line with our corporate purpose. Taking into account the expectations of all of the Group’s stakeholders’ and led by employee-driven initiatives, our CSR policy is built on four pillars: decarbonize aerospace, be an exemplary employer, embody responsible industry and affirm our commitment to citizenship.


Find out about Safran's commitments
Safran's international reach enables us to build strong, lasting relationships with the majority of the world's aviation companies and airlines. This global presence reflects the Group's determination to offer its customers responsive, local services and to optimize its competitiveness. Safran has a global presence. The international location of our production, design and service facilities, as well as our representative offices, is part of a global industrial strategy that guarantees Group performance, enabling us to be responsive and local to our customers, and to win new markets. Safran is developing its industrial facilities and commercial presence around the world to support the company's growth and that of its customers.
Season’s greetings Our mission: contribute to a safer and more sustainable aviation
List of Safran locations around the world
Discover a selection of our best videos and playlists
At Safran, we are keen to establish solid and sustainable relations with our suppliers and partners. Essential for the performance and continuous improvement of the Group, we have almost 14,000 suppliers in almost 70 countries in production and non-production purchasing areas; 45% of the Group's suppliers are in France.
Through its range of products for plane interiors, Safran is reinventing the in-flight experience to make it safer and more comfortable. The Group offers a wide range of products, from passenger seats to integrated cabins, for all types of aircraft: business and commercial airplanes, military aircraft and helicopters.
Cabins
Safran offers everything needed to outfit aircraft cabins: overhead bins, doors, lavatories, galleys and other food and beverage equipment, rest areas, etc. To ensure top-flight quality, Safran provides support services for cabins on all types of aircraft: mainline, regional and business. We design aircraft cabins as an integrated whole to provide unrivaled space and operating efficiency, while also making things easier for our customers, airlines and other operators and of course the passengers.
Seats
Safran designs, assembles and certifies aircraft seats for crews and passengers. Our development strategy in this market is focused on the continuous improvement of seat comfort and ergonomic design. More than a million Safran seats are being used today by aircraft fleets worldwide. We offer a complete range of products, including economy, premium economy, business and first class passenger seats, along with crew seats (flight attendants and pilots) and helicopter seats.
Safran naturally provides complete support to customers worldwide, covering the entire product lifecycle.
Passenger comfort
A recognized specialist in passenger comfort, Safran offers innovative solutions to guarantee an agreeable flight experience and meet crew needs. We are also developing innovative in-flight entertainment systems within the scope of our “connected cabin” product line, a favorite of passengers. As a pioneer in complete systems for aircraft water and waste management, Safran provides equipment designed to ensure effective air circulation and temperature control in the cabin. Furthermore, through our custom-tailored cabin offering, we provide cabin personalization and modification services for all customers, from airlines to heads of state.
In today's unstable geopolitical context, in the face of many crises making our daily lives increasingly uncertain and our future increasingly unpredictable, Safran is committed to serving sovereignty. Our mission: prevent danger and protect armed forces and populations by supplying armies, navies, air forces and space agencies with the best systems and equipment to meet their needs.
Navigation and timing
Inertia has proved its worth in determining navigation and positioning data accurately: over 50 years ago, Redoutable, the first French device-launching nuclear submarine, was fitted with Safran's inertial systems. The Group has world-class expertise in all inertial navigation technologies (mechanical, thermal, laser, fiber-optic, resonant), and offers systems for both military and civilian sectors, adapted to all operating environments: air, land, sea, and space.
The timing element is critical, both to check the integrity of satellite signals and to secure vital communications. Combining inertial technologies with atomic clocks – considered the most precise timekeepers in the world, Safran offers PNT (Positioning / Navigation / Timing) solutions, which are ultra-reliable even in a GNSS-denied environment. They are also used in critical civilian infrastructures like data centers and digital voting systems.
Electro-optical systems
Optronics is the combination of optics and electronics for image detection, processing and stabilization. With skills we have developed over a period of more than 40 years in this high-tech field, Safran is now number one in Europe for optronic systems for air, land and sea. We offer a full range of very high performance equipment based on ITAR-free and 100% in-house technology. The Group develops solutions to meet the needs of military or paramilitary operations: intelligence, surveillance, detection, reconnaissance, identification and fire control. Safran also designs portable optronic equipment for dismounted warfighters.
Dismounted warfighters
Safran strives to constantly improve the safety of dismounted warfighters and help maintain their tactical superiority in all theaters of operation. We provide a number of equipment ranges to meet this objective:
 Portable optronics for observation and fire control, target acquisition systems for infantry and artillery observers,
 Parachutes for personnel and delivery by air, deceleration systems
 Other personal equipment (modular ballistic protection, secure tactical terminals, etc.).
With the full range of equipment we develop, our experience in project management, and our involvement in French and European collaborative research projects, Safran has strong expertise in integrating warfighters in the battlespace and in ensuring continuity in mounted/dismounted combat.
Drones and robotics
Safran has long-standing, world-renowned expertise in developing autonomous solutions for air and land-based platforms. Safran understands and applies all enabling technologies for drone systems, allowing these systems to handle a wide range of missions: surveillance, intelligence, protection, threat detection, collaborative combat and much more. Drawing on more than 25 years of experience in tactical drone systems, Safran developed the Patroller™, a tactical, multisensor, long-endurance drone. Chosen by the French army, the Patroller™ is the world's first certified tactical drone. The Group is also developing solutions for land-based vehicles, intended for platforms requiring more autonomous mobility features. These include French (the DGA's FURIOUS) and European (iMUGS) projects.
Missile propulsion
In the field of defense, protecting national interests, populations and sensitive sites is a constant challenge. The actions taken to meet such a challenge require increased precision, particularly to reduce collateral damage. Ballistic and tactical missiles propulsion has been a center of excellence at Safran for more than half a century. Safran designs, develops and builds solid and aerobic propulsion systems for a wide range of tactical and cruise missiles deployed by air forces, navies and armies: Mistral (very-short-range air-to-air missile), Scalp (long-range air-to-ground missile) – both produced by the European leader in tactical missiles, MBDA Missiles Systems – Milan (light antitank missile), MICA (air defense missile), AASM (guided air-to-ground missile), MdCN (naval cruise missile). Drawing on its expertise in optronics and navigation, Safran designs cutting-edge infrared, laser and INS/GPS guidance kits guaranteeing heightened precision for all types of target and in all operating environments, including GNNS-denied environments.
Safran’s areas of excellence include engines for both airplanes and helicopters, along with nacelles. Our proven technological expertise has made us a preferred partner to today’s leading aircraft manufacturers. Safran is now positioned at the forefront of the transition towards a carbon-free aviation industry with the development of breakthrough technologies that will lead to ultra-efficient propulsion systems by 2035.
Aircraft engines
Safran provides the world’s leading airframers with innovative and reliable propulsion systems. Our efforts today focus on decreasing fuel consumption and maintenance costs, while designing more eco-responsible systems. Through CFM International (the 50/50 joint company between Safran Aircraft Engines and GE) we produce the LEAP® turbofan, successor to the best-selling CFM56®. The LEAP powers new-generation single-aisle commercial jets: the Airbus A320neo, Boeing 737 MAX and COMAC C919. Safran, along with its partner GE, has adopted the Revolutionary Innovation for Sustainable Engines (RISE) program to develop a new generation of engines for short- and medium-haul planes. Safran aims to reduce fuel consumption by 20% compared to LEAP with an engine compatible with 100% sustainable fuel or hydrogen in order to move towards carbon neutrality in 2050. We’re also a leading military aircraft engine manufacturer, supplying the whole M88 engine for the Rafale fighter, and as part of a consortium making the TP400 turboprop engine for the Airbus A400M transport aircraft
Helicopter engines
Safran is the world’s leading supplier of helicopter engines, with products for all market segments: civil, public agencies (medevac, search & rescue, etc.) and military. We design, produce, sell and support a complete range of turbine engines, working with all major helicopter manufacturers worldwide: Airbus Helicopters, Bell Helicopter, Leonardo, Avicopter, Sikorsky, Russian Helicopters, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), Korea Aerospace Industries, etc. We also power a majority of new-generation rotorcraft, including the Airbus Helicopters H160, Bell 505, Leonardo AW189K, Avicopter AC352, Russian Helicopters Ka-62, KAI LCH/LAH, Tiger, NH90, H225M, AW101, etc.
Nacelles
Safran designs, produces and supports aircraft engine nacelles. In fact, we’re the only nacelle manufacturer in the world to supply all civil aviation segments, from regional and business jets to mainline commercial jets. Drawing on our expertise in composite materials, we make high-performance nacelles that combine silent operation, light weight and advanced aerodynamics. Safran provides nacelles for the Airbus A320neo, COMAC C919, Airbus A330neo, Gulfstream G700 and Global 7500.
Engine equipment
Safran offers systems and equipment for both civil and military aircraft engines. These products include mechanical power transmission systems, engine control units (in partnership with BAE Systems), lubrication, cooling and filtration equipment, and much more. Our innovative solutions have been chosen for a wide range of engines, including the CFM International LEAP and CFM56, and the Rolls-Royce Trent (500, 700, 800, XWB and 7000).
