The Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its fifty-sixth session in Vienna from 12 to 21 June 2
The officers of the Committee were as follows: Chair: Yasushi Horikawa (Japan) First Vice-Chair: Filipe Duarte Santos (Portugal) Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur: Piotr Wolanski (Poland) A. Meetings of subsidiary bodies 
The Scientific and Technical Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its fiftieth session in Vienna from 11 to 22 February 2013, under the chairmanship of Félix Clementino Menicocci (Argentina). The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/1038). 
The Legal Subcommittee of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space held its fifty-second session in Vienna from 8 to 19 April 2013, under the chairmanship of Tare Charles Brisibe (Nigeria). The report of the Subcommittee was before the Committee (A/AC.105/1045). B. Adoption of the agenda 
At its opening meeting, the Committee adopted the following agenda: 
Opening of the session. 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. 
Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its fiftieth session. 
Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its fifty-second session. 
Space and sustainable development. 
Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status. 
Space and water. 
Space and climate change. 
Use of space technology in the United Nations system. 
Future role of the Committee. 
Other matters. 2 V.13-84944 
Report of the Committee to the General Assembly. C. Membership 
In accordance with General Assembly resolutions 1472 A (XIV), 1721 E (XVI), 3182 (XXVIII), 32/196 B, 35/16, 49/33, 56/51, 57/116, 59/116, 62/217, 65/97 and 66/71 and decisions 45/315, 67/412 and 67/528, the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space was composed of the following 74 States: Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. D. Attendance 
Representatives of the following 64 States members of the Committee attended the session: Algeria, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belgium, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, United States, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. 
At its 660th meeting, on 12 June, the Committee decided to invite, at their request, observers for Belarus, Côte d’Ivoire, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Ghana, Guatemala, Israel, Luxembourg, Panama and the United Arab Emirates, as well as the Holy See, to attend its fifty-sixth session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that it would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
At the same meeting, the Committee decided to invite, at the request of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, the observer for that organization to attend the session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that it would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
Also at the same meeting, the Committee decided to invite, at the request of the European Union, the observer for that organization to attend the session and to V.13-84944 address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that it would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
Observers for the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia and the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) attended the session. 
The session was attended by observers for the following intergovernmental organizations with permanent observer status with the Committee: the Asia-Pacific Space Cooperation Organization (APSCO), the Association of Remote Sensing Centres in the Arab World, the European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere (ESO), the European Space Agency (ESA), the European Telecommunications Satellite Organization (EUTELSAT-IGO), the International Mobile Satellite Organization, the International Organization of Space Communications, the International Telecommunications Satellite Organization and the Regional Centre for Remote Sensing of North African States. The observer for the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (Unidroit) also attended the session. 
The session was also attended by observers for the following non-governmental organizations with permanent observer status with the Committee: the European Space Policy Institute (ESPI), the International Academy of Astronautics, the International Astronautical Federation (IAF), the International Institute of Space Law (IISL), the International Law Association (ILA), the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, the National Space Society (NSS), the Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz International Prize for Water (PSIPW), the Scientific Committee on Solar-Terrestrial Physics (SCOSTEP), the Secure World Foundation (SWF), the Space Generation Advisory Council (SGAC) and the World Space Week Association (WSWA). 
At its 660th meeting, the Committee decided to invite, at the request of the Inter-Islamic Network on Space Sciences and Technology (ISNET), the observer for that organization to attend its fifty-sixth session and to address it, as appropriate, on the understanding that it would be without prejudice to further requests of that nature and that it would not involve any decision of the Committee concerning status. 
A list of representatives of States members of the Committee, States not members of the Committee, United Nations entities and other organizations attending the session is contained in A/AC.105/2013/INF/1 and Corr.
E. General statements 
Statements were made by representatives of the following States members of the Committee during the general exchange of views: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Libya, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania, Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, Tunisia, Ukraine, United States, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) and Viet Nam. 4 V.13-84944 Statements were also made by the observer for Guatemala on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, and the representative of France, together with the observer for the European Union, on behalf of the European Union. The observers for Belarus, Ghana and Luxembourg also made statements. The observers for IAF, ESA, ESO, EUTELSAT-IGO, NSS, SGAC, SWF and WSWA also made statements. 
At the 660th meeting, the Chair delivered a statement highlighting the role played by the Committee and its Subcommittees in promoting efforts to further space exploration and research and in bringing the benefits of space technology to global sustainable development goals. He stressed the need to strengthen regional and interregional cooperation in the field of space activities and in capacity-building, and to ensure closer coordination between the Committee and other intergovernmental bodies involved in the post-2015 development agenda. 
At the 662nd meeting, on 13 June, the Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs of the Secretariat made a statement in which she reviewed the work carried out by the Office during the previous year, including outreach activities and cooperation and coordination with United Nations entities and international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations. She also highlighted the current financial status of the Office and stressed the importance of availability of financial and other resources for the successful implementation of the programme of work of the Office. 
The Committee welcomed Armenia, Costa Rica and Jordan as new members of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. The Ibero-American Institute of Aeronautic and Space Law and Commercial Aviation and SCOSTEP were welcomed as the newest permanent observers of the Committee. 
The Committee congratulated China on its successful launch, on 11 June 2013, of the fifth manned space flight mission, to be performed by three crew members, one of whom was the second female astronaut from China (taikonaut). 
The Committee also congratulated Azerbaijan on the successful launch, on 8 February 2013, of its first national telecommunications satellite. 
The Committee further congratulated Ecuador on the launch into orbit of its first satellite, NEE-01 Pegaso, which was carried out on 25 April 2013 from Jiuquan, China. 
The Committee noted with appreciation the special panel on the theme “Space: building the future today”, which met to mark the fiftieth anniversary of the first space flight by a woman, Valentina V. Tereshkova, and to address the contribution of women to space activities. The panel was moderated by the Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs. A welcome address was given by the Director-General of the United Nations Office at Vienna. The panel comprised the following women prominent in space activities: Valentina V. Tereshkova (Russian Federation), Abimbola H. Alale (Nigeria), Roberta Bondar (Canada), Amalia Ercoli Finzi (Italy), Chiaki Mukai (Japan), Marion Paradas (France) on behalf of Géraldine Naja (ESA), Julie A. Sattler (United States), Maureen Williams (Argentina) and Liu Yang (China) representing the fields of space exploration, science, technology, applications, business, policy and law. A video message was delivered by astronaut Karen Nyberg (United States), who was on board the International Space Station at V.13-84944 the time, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the first space flight by a woman. 
The Committee also noted with appreciation the exhibition held at the Vienna International Centre during the present session of the Committee to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of the first space flight by a woman, while also featuring photographs and biographies of other women astronauts. Contributions were made by Canada, Japan, the Russian Federation and its agency for tourism of the Yaroslavl Region, the Universities Space Research Association, the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the United Nations Postal Administration. 
The Committee further noted with satisfaction the discussion by the panel of women astronauts and cosmonauts on the theme “Women in space: the next 50 years”, organized jointly by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the Association of Space Explorers on 13 June 2013 at the Natural History Museum in Vienna. 
The Committee noted the screening of videos presented on the margins of the current session: “No gravity”, by the delegations of France and Germany, “Shenzhou-9” by the delegation of China, “Japanese space women” by the delegation of Japan and “Chopin: the space concert”, by the delegation of Poland. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Japan’s international cooperation in the field of space”, by the representative of Japan; (b) “Recent space activities in Turkey”, by the representative of Turkey; (c) “Introduction to the movie Chopin in Space”, by the representative of Poland; (d) “Earth observation applications in India for governance and empowering of citizens”, by the representative of India; (e) “National Space Programme of the Republic of Belarus”, by the observer for Belarus. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction a side event on the role of ethics in discourse on space sustainability, which was organized by ESPI on 20 June 2
The Committee noted with appreciation the successful completion of the sixty-third International Astronautical Congress, held in Naples, Italy, from 1 to 5 October 2
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the sixty-fourth Congress would be hosted by the Government of China and held in Beijing from 23 to 27 September 2
The Committee welcomed with appreciation the publication entitled Human Space Technology Initiative: Humans in Space (ST/SPACE/62). 
The Committee expressed its deep appreciation and gratitude to Mazlan Othman, Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, on the occasion of her retirement, for her outstanding dedication to the work of the Office and to the Committee, and wished her well in her future endeavours. 6 V.13-84944 F. Adoption of the report of the Committee 
After considering the various items before it, the Committee, at its 674th meeting, on 21 June 2013, adopted its report to the General Assembly containing the recommendations and decisions set out below. Chapter II Recommendations and decisions A. Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes 
In accordance with paragraph 20 of General Assembly resolution 67/113, the Committee continued its consideration, as a matter of priority, of ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes, including consideration of ways to promote regional and interregional cooperation and the role that space technology could play in the implementation of recommendations of the World Summit on Sustainable Development.1 
The representatives of Egypt, Greece, Japan, the Russian Federation, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by other member States, the observer for Guatemala on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, and the representative of France, together with the observer for the European Union, on behalf of the European Union. 
The Committee heard the following presentations under the item: (a) “Changing the perspective: atmospheric research on the International Space Station”, by the representative of Germany; (b) “Space Security Index 2013”, by the representative of Canada; (c) “Twenty years of history and the future of the Asia-Pacific Regional Space Agency Forum (APRSAF)”, by the representative of Japan; (d) “Italian master course in space institutions and policies”, by the representative of Italy. 
The Committee had before it a working paper by the Russian Federation entitled “Prerequisites for promoting the consideration of ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes in the context of the issue of the long-term sustainability of outer space activities” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.19). 
The Committee agreed that, through its work in the scientific, technical and legal fields, as well as through the promotion of international dialogue and exchange of information on various topics relating to the exploration and use of See Report of the World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, South Africa, 26 August-4 September 2002 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.03.II.A.1 and corrigendum). V.13-84944 outer space, it had a fundamental role to play in ensuring that outer space was maintained for peaceful purposes. 
The Committee emphasized that international, regional and interregional cooperation and coordination in the field of space activities were essential to strengthen the peaceful uses of outer space and to assist States in the development of their space capabilities. 
The view was expressed that the consideration of the item by the Committee did not correspond with criteria of essential and professional dialogue and thus there was absence of a substantive and visionary approach to practical issues and matters relating to ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. In this regard, that delegation expressed the view that this situation could be improved through maintaining confidence among States and strengthening rational factors in their policy, such as future guidelines on long-term sustainability of outer space activities, in particular those relating to matters of security in outer space. 
The view was expressed that the working paper (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.19) contained an outline of the existing links between various aspects of ensuring security in space and of safe space operations and defined a set of topics that could motivate the work of the Committee under this item of its agenda, and that the Committee should begin to analyse the legal basis for and the modalities of the exercise of the right to self-defence in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, as applied to outer space. 
The view was expressed that the proposal to consider various aspects of the exercise of the right to self-defence in outer space in accordance with the Charter corresponded with criteria of a responsible approach to the use of outer space. 
The view was expressed that the Committee was the only United Nations body aimed at promoting the peaceful use of outer space and therefore any concept that violated the legal principles of States relating to the peaceful use of outer space, such as the concept of the right to self-defence or the use of weapons in outer space, should not be accepted in the Committee, as this would be in contradiction with its fundamental tasks. 
Some delegations were of the view that the existing legal regime with respect to outer space was not adequate to prevent the placement of weapons in outer space or to address issues concerning the space environment, and that it was important to further develop international space law in order to maintain outer space for peaceful purposes. In this regard, those delegations were of the view that in order to ensure that outer space was used peacefully and to prevent its militarization, the preparation of binding international legal instruments was necessary. 
Some delegations were of the view that, in order to maintain the peaceful nature of space activities and prevent the placement of weapons in outer space, it was essential for the Committee to enhance its cooperation and coordination with other bodies and mechanisms of the United Nations system, such as the First Committee of the General Assembly and the Conference on Disarmament. 
The view was expressed that the Committee had been created exclusively to promote international cooperation with respect to the peaceful uses of outer space and that disarmament issues were more appropriately dealt with in other forums, such as the First Committee of the General Assembly and the Conference on 8 V.13-84944 Disarmament. In that connection, that delegation was of the view that no actions by the Committee were needed regarding the weaponization of outer space and that there was no scarcity of appropriate multilateral mechanisms where disarmament could be discussed. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the fifth African Leadership Conference on Space Science and Technology for Sustainable Development would be hosted by Ghana and would be held in Accra in December 2
The Committee recalled the Pachuca Declaration, adopted by the Sixth Space Conference of the Americas, held in Pachuca, Mexico, from 15 to 19 November 2010, which developed a regional space policy for the near future and also, inter alia, created a space experts advisory group. The Committee noted that the pro tempore secretariat of the Conference had organized a regional meeting under the theme “Use of space for humans and environmental security in the Americas” in Mexico City from 17 to 20 April 2012 and a meeting of representatives of national space entities in Santiago on 12 November 2
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the nineteenth session of APRSAF had been held in Kuala Lumpur from 11 to 14 December 2012 under the theme “Enriching the quality of life through innovative space programmes”. The Committee further noted that the twentieth session of the Forum would be organized jointly by the Government of Japan and the Viet Nam Academy of Science and Technology and would take place in Hanoi in December 2
The Committee noted with satisfaction that APSCO had held its sixth Council Meeting in Tehran on 17 and 18 July 2012, at which it had approved a number of new projects, reviewed the progress being made on those approved earlier and agreed to hold its next meeting in 2
The Committee noted the important role that bilateral and multilateral agreements played in promoting common space exploration objectives and cooperative and complementary space exploration missions. 
Some delegations informed the Committee about the continuous work in the development, in an open, transparent and inclusive manner, of an international code of conduct for outer space activities, thus offering all interested Member States the opportunity to participate in the process and share their views. These delegations also informed the Committee that the first open-ended consultations had been held in Kyiv on 16 and 17 May 2013 and that a second round of consultations was planned for late 2
The Committee recommended that, at its fifty-seventh session, in 2014, consideration of the item on ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes should be continued, on a priority basis. B. Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its fiftieth session 
The Committee took note with appreciation of the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its fiftieth session (A/AC.105/1038), which contained V.13-84944 the results of its deliberations on the items considered by the Subcommittee in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The Committee expressed its appreciation to Félix Clementino Menicocci (Argentina) for his able leadership during the fiftieth session of the Subcommittee. 
The representatives of Canada, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Germany, Japan, Mexico, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. A statement was also made by the representative of Chile on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by other member States. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “The latest development of the Beidou global navigation satellite system”, by the representative of China; (b) “Japan’s contributions to the International Space Station”, by the representative of Japan; (c) “Satellite Miranda”, by the representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela; (d) “The state of utilization of space technologies by the National Institute of Meteorology of Tunisia”, by the representative of Tunisia; (e) “Next steps in space exploration”, by the representative of the United States; (f) “Indian Earth observation, space science and planetary missions: status 2013”, by the representative of India; (g) “Japan’s contribution to space weather: research and applications”, by the representative of Japan; (h) “Crisis of floods and mines: Iraq 2013”, by the representative of Iraq; (i) “Deflecting hazardous asteroids from collision with the Earth by using small asteroids”, by the representative of the Russian Federation. 
United Nations Programme on Space Applications (a) Activities of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the United Nations Programme on Space Applications, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 28-50, and annex I, paras. 2 and 3). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions and recommendations of the Subcommittee and its Working Group of the Whole, which had been convened under the chairmanship of V. K. Dadhwal (India) to consider the item (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 31 and 40). 
The Committee noted that the priority areas of the Programme were: (a) environmental monitoring; (b) natural resources management; (c) satellite communications for tele-education and telemedicine applications; (d) disaster risk 10 V.13-84944 reduction; (e) developing capabilities in the use of global navigation satellite systems; (f) the Basic Space Science Initiative; (g) space law; (h) climate change; (i) the Basic Space Technology Initiative; and (j) the Human Space Technology Initiative. 
The Committee took note of the activities of the Programme carried out in 2012, as presented in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 36-39) and in the report of the Expert on Space Applications (A/AC.105/1031, annex I). 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Office for Outer Space Affairs for the manner in which the activities of the Programme had been implemented. The Committee also expressed its appreciation to the Governments and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations that had sponsored the activities. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that further progress was being made in the implementation of the activities of the Programme for 2013, as described in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, para. 40). 
The Committee also noted with satisfaction that the Office for Outer Space Affairs was helping developing countries and countries with economies in transition to participate in and benefit from activities being carried out under the Programme. 
The Committee noted with concern the limited financial resources available to implement the Programme and appealed to States and organizations to continue supporting the Programme through voluntary contributions. 
The Committee took note of the conference room papers entitled “Basic Space Science Initiative 1991-2012” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.11), “Basic Space Technology Initiative: activities in 2012-2013 and plans for 2014 and beyond” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.14) and “Human Space Technology Initiative: activities in 2011-2013 and plans for 2014 and beyond” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.16). (i) Conferences, training courses and workshops of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications 
The Committee endorsed the workshops, training courses, symposiums and expert meetings planned for the remainder of 2013 and expressed its appreciation to Austria, Belarus, China, Croatia, Indonesia, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates, as well as ESA, IAF and the International Committee on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (ICG), for co-sponsoring and hosting those activities (see A/AC.105/1031, annex II). 
The Committee endorsed the programme of workshops, training courses, symposiums and expert meetings relating to environmental monitoring, natural resource management, global health, global navigation satellite systems (GNSS), basic space science, basic space technology, space law, climate change, human space technology and the socioeconomic benefits of space activities to be held in 2014 for the benefit of developing countries. V.13-84944 (ii) Long-term fellowships for in-depth training 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Government of Italy, which, through the Politecnico di Torino and the Istituto Superiore Mario Boella and with the collaboration of the Istituto Elettrotecnico Nazionale Galileo Ferraris, had continued to provide fellowships for postgraduate studies on GNSS and related applications. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Government of Japan, which, through the Kyushu Institute of Technology, had provided fellowships for postgraduate studies on nanosatellite technologies. The Committee also noted with satisfaction that the Long-Term Fellowship Programme on Nanosatellite Technologies would be extended from 2013 to 2017 and would annually accept up to four doctoral and two master’s degree students. 
The Committee noted that it was important to increase opportunities for in-depth education in all areas of space science, technology and applications and space law through long-term fellowships and urged Member States to make such opportunities available at their relevant institutions. (iii) Technical advisory services 
The Committee noted with appreciation the technical advisory services provided under the United Nations Programme on Space Applications in support of activities and projects promoting regional cooperation in space applications, as referred to in the report of the Expert on Space Applications (A/AC.105/1031, paras. 38-43). (iv) Regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the United Nations Programme on Space Applications continued to emphasize, promote and foster cooperation with Member States at the regional and global levels to support the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations. The highlights of the activities of the regional centres supported under the Programme in 2011-2012 and the activities planned for 2013 were presented in the report of the Expert on Space Applications (A/AC.105/1031, annex III). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that an educational curriculum on GNSS (ST/SPACE/59) had been developed for nine-month postgraduate courses at the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the host countries of the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, were providing the centres with significant financial and in-kind support. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that an evaluation mission facilitated by the Office for Outer Space Affairs to Beihang University in Beijing would take place in September 2013, in accordance with the proposal by the Government of China to establish a regional centre for space science and technology education (A/AC.105/1038, para. 45). The Committee further noted that a meeting had been held on the margins of its present session to develop and agree on the terms of 12 V.13-84944 reference for the evaluation mission, which are contained in conference room paper A/AC.105/2013/CRP.21/Rev.
(b) International Satellite System for Search and Rescue 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the International Satellite System for Search and Rescue (COSPAS-SARSAT) currently had 41 member States and two participating organizations and that there was additional interest in being associated with the programme. The Committee noted with appreciation that the worldwide coverage for emergency beacons had been made possible by the space segment, which consisted of six polar-orbiting and six geostationary satellites provided by Canada, France, the Russian Federation and the United States, along with the European Organization for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT), as well as by the ground segment contributions made by 26 other countries. The Committee also noted that, since becoming operational in 1982, COSPAS-SARSAT had provided assistance in rescuing at least 34,900 persons in 9,700 search and rescue events and that in 2012 alert data from the system had helped to save 1,950 lives in 662 search and rescue events worldwide. 
The Committee also noted that the use of satellites in medium-Earth orbit continued to be explored, with a view to improving international satellite-aided search and rescue operations. The Committee welcomed the testing of global positioning system satellites to improve the capabilities of beacons to best take advantage of medium-Earth orbit satellites. 
Implementation of the recommendations of the Third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III) 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on implementation of the recommendations of the Third United Nations Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III), as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 51-59). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations and decisions on the item made by the Subcommittee and its Working Group of the Whole (A/AC.105/1038, para. 59, and annex I, paras. 10, 11, 13 and 14). 
The Committee noted that the General Assembly, in its resolution 67/113, had recalled that a number of the recommendations set out in the plan of action of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space on the implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE III (A/59/174, sect. VI.B) had been implemented and that satisfactory progress was being made in implementing the outstanding recommendations through national and regional activities. 
The Committee also noted that its long-standing achievements encompassed the three United Nations Conferences on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE I, II and III), held in Vienna in 1968, 1982 and 1999, respectively, resulting in many important actions of the Committee and programmatic activities of the Office for Outer Space Affairs. 
The Committee agreed to rename this agenda item “Space technology for socioeconomic development in the context of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and the post-2015 development agenda” and further V.13-84944 agreed that the item should be closely interlinked with the new agenda item of the Committee on “Space and sustainable development”. 
The Committee noted that, in relation to the recommendations of the Action Team on Public Health (action team 6), a strategy meeting had been held on the margins of the fiftieth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee to discuss a follow-up initiative for an open community approach to tele-health and telemedicine and the use of space technology in spatial epidemiology and spatial ecotoxicology issues, emanating from the international expert meeting on “Improving public health through space technology applications: an open-community approach”, held from 30 July to 1 August 2012 in Bonn, Germany. 
Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 60-72). 
In the course of the discussion, delegations reviewed national and cooperative programmes on remote sensing. Examples were given of national, bilateral, regional and international programmes to further socioeconomic and sustainable development, notably in the following areas: agriculture and fishery; monitoring climate change; disaster management; hydrology; managing ecosystems and natural resources; monitoring air and water quality; mapping biodiversity resources, coastal zones, land use, wasteland and wetlands; ice-cover monitoring; oceanography; rural development and urban planning; and safety and public health. 
The Committee noted the increased availability of space-based data at little or no cost, including the remote sensing data, made available free of charge, from the China-Brazil Earth resources satellites, the SAC-C and SAC-D international missions, Landsat of the United States, Shizuku of Japan and OCEANSAT-2 of India. 
The Committee took note of the number of continued launches of Earth observation satellites and the innovative research conducted using such satellites, data from which could be used to develop advanced, global-integrated Earth-system models. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that a growing number of developing countries had been actively developing and deploying their own remote sensing satellite systems and utilizing space-based data to advance socioeconomic development, and it stressed the need to continue enhancing the capacities of developing countries with regard to the use of remote sensing technology. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that on 20 June 2013 Israel had donated a model of an Earth observation satellite “OpSat 2000” to the permanent exhibit of the Office for Outer Space Affairs. 
The Committee noted the progress made by the Group on Earth Observations (GEO) in the implementation of the Global Earth Observation System of Systems (GEOSS) and other initiatives, such as those on forest carbon tracking, climate and agriculture monitoring, development and integration of observation networks in cold 14 V.13-84944 regions and capacity-building efforts towards expansion of access to and use of Earth observation in developing countries. The Committee also noted the fifth GEOSS Asia-Pacific Symposium, held in Tokyo in April 2012, and the ninth plenary session of GEO, hosted by Brazil in Foz do Iguaçu in November 2
The Committee further noted that Switzerland would host the next GEO plenary session and ministerial summit in January 2
Space debris 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space debris, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 73-106). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions and recommendations of the Subcommittee on the item (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 101, 103, 104 and 106). 
The Committee noted with appreciation that some States were already implementing space debris mitigation measures consistent with the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee and/or the Inter-Agency Space Debris Coordination Committee (IADC) Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines and that other States had developed their own space debris mitigation standards based on those guidelines. The Committee also noted that other States were using the IADC Guidelines and the European Code of Conduct for Space Debris Mitigation as reference points in their regulatory frameworks for national space activities. The Committee further noted that other States had cooperated, in the framework of the ESA space situational awareness programme, to address the issue of space debris. 
The Committee urged those countries that had not yet done so to consider voluntary implementation of the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and/or the IADC Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines. 
The Committee welcomed the symposium on the theme “Overview of studies and concepts for active orbital debris removal”, organized by IAF during the fiftieth session of the Subcommittee. 
Some delegations expressed the view that national and international efforts should be intensified to reduce the creation and proliferation of space debris. 
Some delegations called on the Subcommittee to continue its thorough consideration of the issue of space debris mitigation, in particular by paying greater attention to the problem of debris coming from platforms with nuclear power sources in outer space and to collisions of space objects with space debris and their derivatives, as well as to ways of improving the technology and the collaborative networks for monitoring space debris. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it would be beneficial for Member States to exchange information on measures to reduce the creation and proliferation of space debris and to mitigate its effects; on the collection, sharing and dissemination of data on space objects; and on re-entry notifications. 
Some delegations expressed the view that States, especially those States that were largely responsible for the situation with space debris, and those that had the V.13-84944 ability to take action for space debris mitigation, should disseminate information on actions taken to reduce the generation of space debris. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and the Legal Subcommittee should cooperate in developing legally binding rules relating to space debris. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the issue of space debris should be addressed in a manner that would not jeopardize the development of the space capabilities of developing countries. 
The view was expressed that space debris mitigation solutions should not impose undue costs on the emerging space programmes of developing countries. 
The view was expressed that States that have space objects should follow up on and continuously monitor them. 
The view was expressed that the early detection and precise tracking of natural and manmade space debris should be encouraged. 
The view was expressed that it was necessary to promote closer coordination of efforts by spacefaring nations in increasing understanding of the actual status of space debris, including space debris of small size, as well as to establish international practice aimed at enhancing safety of space activities and raising the level of trust through mutual exchange of information. 
The view was expressed that spacefaring nations should promptly provide relevant reliable information and data to the countries that might be affected by the re-entry of space debris to allow for timely assessment of potential risks. 
The view was expressed that more consideration should be given to the issue of space debris in the geostationary orbit and low-Earth orbits. 
The view was expressed that, during the removal of space debris, no unilateral action should be taken by any State with respect to a space object of another State. 
The view was expressed that retroreflectors should be mounted on all massive objects, including those that would become inactive after launch, which would enable greater accuracy in determining the position of orbital elements and increase the efficiency of collision avoidance manoeuvres. 
Space-system-based disaster management support 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space-system-based disaster management support, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 107-128, and annex I, paras. 4 and 5). 
The Committee had before it a report on the International Expert Meeting on Crowdsource Mapping for Disaster Risk Management and Emergency Response, held in Vienna from 3 to 5 December 2012 (A/AC.105/1044) and a conference room paper entitled “UN-SPIDER regional support offices meeting on the implementation of the planned 2013-2014 programme activities” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.12). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the voluntary contributions being made by Member States, including cash contributions from Austria, China and Germany, and encouraged Member States to provide, on a voluntary basis, all the support 16 V.13-84944 necessary, including financial support, to the United Nations Platform for Space-based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response (UN-SPIDER) to enable it to carry out its workplan for the biennium 2014-2
The Committee noted with appreciation that the programme had also benefited from the services of associate experts and experts provided by Austria, China, Germany and Turkey. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the ongoing activities of Member States that were contributing to increasing the availability and use of space-based solutions in support of disaster management, and also supporting the UN-SPIDER programme, including the following: the Sentinel Asia project and its coordination of emergency observation requests through the Asian Disaster Reduction Centre, the European Earth Observation Programme (Copernicus) emergency mapping service, and the Charter on Cooperation to Achieve the Coordinated Use of Space Facilities in the Event of Natural or Technological Disasters (also called the International Charter on Space and Major Disasters). 
The Committee noted that the information and services being delivered under the UN-SPIDER programme were making a valuable contribution to mitigating the consequences of natural disasters and called on Member States to continue supporting the programme. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the signature of the UN-SPIDER regional support office agreement between the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the Ministry for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Elimination of Consequences of Natural Disasters (EMERCOM) of the Russian Federation, which took place in Vienna on 19 June 2013, during the session of the Committee. 
The view was expressed that attendance by representatives of UN-SPIDER regional support offices at training courses for project managers for the International Charter on Space and Major Disasters, including the upcoming one to be held at ESA in Italy in June 2013, would strengthen the role of the regional support Offices and UN-SPIDER in supporting the implementation of the universal access initiative of the Charter, which opens the service to all Member States. 
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on recent developments in global navigation satellite systems, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 129-155). 
The Committee noted with appreciation that ICG continued to make significant progress towards encouraging compatibility and interoperability among global and regional space-based positioning, navigation and timing systems and promoting the use of GNSS and their integration into infrastructures, particularly in developing countries. 
The Committee expressed its appreciation to the Office for Outer Space Affairs for its continued support as executive secretariat for ICG and its Providers’ Forum. In that regard the Committee noted with appreciation the publication of an educational curriculum on GNSS (ST/SPACE/59), which was a unique result of the deliberations of the regional workshops on GNSS applications since 2006, was available to the regional centres for space science and technology education, V.13-84944 affiliated to the United Nations, and supplemented the proven standard model education curricula of the regional centres developed through the programme on space applications. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the seventh meeting of ICG and the ninth meeting of its Providers’ Forum had been held in Beijing from 4 to 9 November 2012, that the tenth meeting of the Provider’s Forum had been held in Vienna on 10 June 2013, and that the eighth meeting of ICG would be held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, from 10 to 14 November 2
The Committee also noted the expression of interest by the European Union in hosting the ninth meeting of ICG, in 2
The Committee noted that South Africa and the European Union had agreed to cooperate on GNSS applications and services. 
The Committee noted that the United Kingdom and the United States had reached a common understanding of intellectual property rights related to global positioning systems. It was noted that this understanding was part of a broader, shared effort to advance compatibility and interoperability among civil satellite navigation systems and transparency in civil service provision. 
The Committee noted that two additional operational satellites had been successfully launched in October 2012 as part of the Galileo satellite navigation system, and that these satellites had joined the two existing satellites that had been orbiting the Earth since October 2011, forming together a mini-constellation of four satellites needed for validation and fine-tuning of the Galileo navigation satellite system. In this regard, the Committee noted that the responsibility for operating the Galileo satellite navigation system would be conferred to the European GNSS Agency, based in Prague. 
The Committee also noted that the Government of the Russian Federation had declared the prolongation of its commitment to provide Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS) standard precision signals to the international community, including the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), on a non-discriminatory basis for a period of not less than 15 years without levying a direct charge on users. 
The Committee noted a series of successful launches of China’s Beidou satellite navigation system and that the system had started providing initial positioning, navigation and timing services to China and surrounding areas. 
The Committee noted that the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System of Japan would be expanded and upgraded into an operational and regional satellite-based GNSS for the benefit of the countries of the Asia-Pacific region. 
The Committee noted that India was planning to launch the first satellite of the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System, IRNSS-1A, as the first satellite of the seven satellite constellation designed for providing positional, navigational and timing services over India and its neighbouring countries. 
The Committee noted that SGAC, through its Youth for Global Navigation Satellite Systems group, had continued to support public education and outreach regarding the importance of GNSS systems, including updating its brochure on “GNSS and youth”. 18 V.13-84944 
The Committee noted with appreciation that on 10 June 2013, on the margins of the tenth meeting of the Provider’s Forum, the European Commission had donated a model of the Galileo navigation satellite system, provided by Astrium, to the permanent exhibit of the Office for Outer Space Affairs. 
Space weather 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on space weather, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 156-166). 
The Committee noted that the agenda item allowed member States of the Committee and international organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee to exchange views on national, regional and international activities related to space weather science and research with a view to promoting greater international cooperation in that area. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the objectives of the item on space weather (A/AC.105/1038, para. 160). 
The Committee welcomed the fact that the United Nations Programme on Space Applications had organized three workshops on the International Space Weather Initiative, hosted by Egypt in 2010, Nigeria in 2011 and Ecuador in 2012, and the first United Nations/Austria Symposium on Data Analysis and Image Processing for Space Applications and Sustainable Development: Space Weather Data, hosted by Austria in 2
The Committee also welcomed the upcoming second United Nations/Austria Symposium on Space Weather, scheduled to take place in September 2013, to be hosted by the Austrian Academy of Sciences on behalf of the Government of Austria. 
The Committee noted that the activities which had begun under the International Heliophysical Year 2007 and had continued under the International Space Weather Initiative provided an understanding of the effects of the sun on the space infrastructure and the Earth’s environment. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that a special workshop on space weather was planned to be held on the margins of the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2
The Committee noted that the International Space Weather Initiative and SCOSTEP had been organizing space science schools on solar terrestrial physics and space weather, beginning in 2007 with the International Heliophysical Year, and that the 2013 space science school would be held in Nairobi. This school was a continuation of the previous successful schools conducted in Ethiopia in 2010, Slovakia in 2011 and Indonesia in 2
The Committee also noted the National Space Weather Laboratory, an initiative set up by the National Space Agency of Malaysia (ANGKASA) and the Malaysian Meteorological Department, continued to monitor space weather and to issue notifications to various stakeholders and to the public. V.13-84944 
Use of nuclear power sources in outer space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the use of nuclear power sources in outer space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 167-178). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions and recommendations of the Subcommittee and the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, reconvened under the chairmanship of Sam A. Harbison (United Kingdom) (A/AC.105/1038, para. 178, and annex II, paras. 10 and 11). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the work of the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space under its multi-year workplan. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was exclusively States, irrespective of their level of social, economic, scientific or technical development, that had an obligation to engage in the regulatory process associated with the use of nuclear power sources in outer space and that the matter concerned all humanity. Those delegations were of the view that Governments bore international responsibility for national activities involving the use of nuclear power sources in outer space conducted by governmental and non-governmental organizations and that such activities must be beneficial, not detrimental, to humanity. 
Some delegations expressed the view that more consideration should be given to the use of nuclear power sources in terrestrial orbits in order to address the problem of potential collisions of nuclear power source objects in orbit, as well as to their accidental re-entry into the Earth’s atmosphere. Those delegations were of the view that more attention should be given to that matter through adequate strategies, long-term planning, regulations and the promotion of binding standards, as well as the Safety Framework for Nuclear Power Source Applications in Outer Space. 
Near-Earth objects 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on near-Earth objects, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 179-198, and annex III). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations of the Subcommittee and its Working Group on Near-Earth Objects for an international response to the near-Earth object (NEO) impact threat (A/AC.105/1038, para. 198, and annex III). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that implementation of the recommendations would ensure increased awareness, coordination of protection and mitigation activities and further international collaboration with regard to NEOs. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group on Near-Earth Objects had finalized its work in 2013 and expressed sincere gratitude to Sergio Camacho (Mexico) for the successful chairmanship of the Working Group. 
The Committee noted that the Working Group on Near-Earth Objects had had before it the final report of the Action Team on Near-Earth Objects (A/AC.105/C.1/L.330) and the recommendations of the Action Team on Near-Earth Objects for an international response to the NEO impact threat (A/AC.105/C.1/L.329), which contained a summary of the findings on which the 20 V.13-84944 Action Team had based its recommendations for a coordinated international response to the NEO impact threat. 
The Committee noted that the Action Team on Near-Earth Objects would continue its work to assist in the establishment of an international asteroid warning network and a space mission planning advisory group, in accordance with the recommendations of the Working Group on Near-Earth Objects (A/AC.105/1038, para. 198, and annex III). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that, on the margins of its fifty-sixth session, the third meeting of the representatives of space agencies had been held to discuss draft terms of reference for a space mission planning advisory group. In that regard, the Committee also noted that the Action Team should continue to inform the Subcommittee of the progress in the establishment of both groups, and that once established, the international asteroid warning network and the space mission planning advisory group should report on their work to the Subcommittee on an annual basis. 
The Committee noted the importance of international collaboration and information-sharing in discovering, monitoring and physically characterizing the potentially hazardous NEO population to ensure that all nations, in particular developing countries with limited capacity in predicting and mitigating an NEO impact, were aware of potential threats. 
The Committee noted that the Action Team on Near Earth Objects, in collaboration with ESA, would organize the first official meeting of representatives of space agencies and relevant space bodies prior to the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2
The Office for Outer Space Affairs would transmit an invitation to all member States of the Committee to designate a space agency or a relevant space body, as well as intergovernmental organizations with spacefaring capabilities, to participate in the first official meeting of the space mission planning advisory group. 
Long-term sustainability of outer space activities 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the long-term sustainability of outer space activities, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 199-225). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations and decisions on the item made by the Subcommittee and the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities, reconvened under the chairmanship of Peter Martinez (South Africa) (A/AC.105/1038, para. 225, and annex IV, paras. 8 and 11). 
The Committee had before it a note by the Secretariat presenting a compilation of the proposed draft guidelines of expert groups A to D of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities, as at the fiftieth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, held in February 2013 (A/AC.105/1041), made available in accordance with the agreement reached by the Working Group during the fiftieth session of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, annex IV, para. 8); a working paper submitted by the Russian Federation entitled “Long-term sustainability of outer space activities” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.13/Rev.1); a working paper submitted by the Russian V.13-84944 Federation entitled “Prerequisites for promoting the consideration of ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes in the context of the issue of the long-term sustainability of outer space activities” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.19); a conference room paper on the development of the report and guidelines of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.20), which included a draft outline for the report of the Working Group; and a conference room paper containing a list of points of contact for the Working Group and members of expert groups A through D (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.17). 
The Committee welcomed the progress made under the agenda item within the Working Group and in the four expert groups and the timely distribution of the document containing the compilation of the proposed draft guidelines, which presented an important step forward in the preparation of a draft set of guidelines of the Working Group. 
The Committee noted that the draft guidelines of each expert group were still under development and that the document containing the compilation of the proposed draft guidelines contained an account of the work done thus far and was produced for the purpose of assisting delegations in giving their considered views on the emerging guidelines and in guiding the expert groups and the Chair of the Working Group in drafting the report of the Group. 
The Committee recalled that a joint meeting of the expert groups had been held on the margins of the fiftieth session of the Subcommittee, where the co-chairs of the expert groups had presented the current status of their work and highlighted overlaps in the emerging guidelines which would be addressed as the guidelines were consolidated into the final report of the Working Group. 
The Committee recalled that, in accordance with the multi-year workplan (see A/66/20, annex II, para. 23), a workshop had been held in conjunction with the fiftieth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and that States members of the Committee had been invited to include in their delegations representatives of national non-governmental organizations and private sector entities having experience in space activities, so as to collect information on their experience and practices in the conduct of sustainable space activities. 
The Committee noted that, in accordance with the agreement reached at its fifty-fifth session (A/67/20, para. 348), the Working Group had met during the current session of the Committee, benefiting from interpretation services. 
The Committee noted that expert groups A to D of the Working Group had met on the margins of the current session of the Committee, in accordance with the terms of reference and methods of work of the Working Group, and as agreed by the Working Group at the fiftieth session of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, annex IV, para. 11). 
The Committee also noted that the expert groups had held a joint meeting on 20 June 2
During that meeting, the co-chairs of the expert groups and the Chair of the Working Group presented the progress that had been made during the current session and addressed questions relating to the preparation of the draft Working Group report. 22 V.13-84944 
The Committee noted that a revised version of document A/AC.105/1041, reflecting the progress made by expert groups A to D of the Working Group on their proposed draft guidelines during the fifty-sixth session of the Committee, would be made available in all official languages of the United Nations as soon as possible after the current session of the Committee. 
The Committee noted that a working paper by the Chair of the Working Group, containing a proposal for a draft Working Group report and a preliminary set of draft guidelines, would be made available in all official languages of the United Nations for the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and that during that session the Working Group would begin to work on its draft report. 
Some delegations expressed the view that a special group should be set up to look into harmonizing the language and terminology used in all official languages of the United Nations in the draft Working Group report. 
The Committee noted that the working reports of the expert groups of the Working Group would be made available in conference room papers during the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2
The Committee noted that expert groups A, B and D had decided to meet informally on the margins of the sixty-fourth International Astronautical Congress, to be held in Beijing from 23 to 27 September 2
The Committee agreed that the Chair of the Working Group would inform the Legal Subcommittee at its fifty-third session of the progress achieved by the Working Group in the period leading up to and during the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the guidelines should be clarified and made more concise, precise and specific, and that there should be a clear path for their implementation. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the issues discussed within the Working Group and by the Group of Governmental Experts on Transparency and Confidence-building Measures in Outer Space Activities, and in relation to the discussions on a proposed international code of conduct for outer space activities, had shared goals of promoting stability, safety and security in the space environment. The delegations that expressed that view were also of the view that it was therefore useful for the Working Group to take into consideration progress made under the other initiatives. 
The view was expressed that discussions on the long-term sustainability of outer space activities were also highlighting the contribution of space activities to sustainable development on Earth, and that developing countries should actively participate in the work of the Working Group. 
The view was expressed that the Working Group and the expert groups should identify concrete near-term, medium-term and long-term goals to achieve the long-term sustainability of outer space activities. 
The view was expressed that the complex technical, political and legal nature of the issues at hand necessitated the allotment of sufficient time for deliberations, so that the emerging guidelines could be clarified and made more concrete in order to facilitate their successful and effective implementation. V.13-84944 
The view was expressed that achieving long-term sustainability of outer space activities necessitated the further advancement of international and regional cooperation, and that the recommendations and guidelines of the Working Group should not limit access to outer space by developing countries with emerging space capabilities. 
The view was expressed that the focus of the guidelines should be shifted from the interests of the private sector to the interests of people, and that the Working Group should endeavour to go beyond the status quo in its efforts to promote the long-term sustainability of outer space activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the use of nuclear power sources in outer space should also be considered with regard to implications for the safe and sustainable use of outer space, and that there should be interaction between the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities and the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space. 
Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 226-232). 
Some delegations reiterated the view that the geostationary orbit was a limited natural resource at risk of becoming saturated, which threatened the sustainability of outer space activities. Those delegations were of the view that the exploitation of the geostationary orbit should, with the participation and cooperation of ITU, be rationalized and made available to all States, irrespective of their current technical capabilities, thus giving them the opportunity to have access to the geostationary orbit under equitable conditions, taking into account in particular the needs of developing countries and the geographical position of certain countries. 
Some delegations were of the view that the geostationary orbit offered unique potential for the implementation of social programmes, educational projects and medical assistance. Those delegations therefore considered that the item on the geostationary orbit should remain on the agenda of the Subcommittee for further discussion through working groups, intergovernmental panels or task forces, for the purpose of continuing to analyse the scientific and technical characteristics of the orbit and in order to ensure the use of the geostationary orbit in accordance with international law. 24 V.13-84944 
Draft provisional agenda for the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the draft provisional agenda for the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 233-242). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations and decisions on the item made by the Subcommittee and its Working Group of the Whole (A/AC.105/1038, paras. 235, 237, 238 and 242, and annex I, paras. 3, 5 and 15). 
On the basis of the deliberations of the Subcommittee at its fiftieth session, the Committee agreed that the following items should be considered by the Subcommittee at its fifty-first session: 
Election of the Chair. 
General exchange of views and introduction of reports submitted on national activities. 
United Nations Programme on Space Applications. 
Space technology for socioeconomic development in the context of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and the post-2015 development agenda. 
Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment. 
Space debris. 
Space-system-based disaster management support. 
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems. 
Space weather. 
Near-Earth objects. 
Use of nuclear power sources in outer space. (Work for 2014 as reflected in the multi-year workplan in paragraphs 8 and 10 of annex II to the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its forty-seventh session (A/AC.105/958)) 
Long-term sustainability of outer space activities. (Work for 2014 as reflected in paragraph 23 of the terms of reference and methods of work of the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities, contained in annex II to the report of the Committee on its fifty-fourth session (A/66/20)) 
Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the V.13-84944 needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. (Single issue/item for discussion) 
Draft provisional agenda for the fifty-second session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, including identification of subjects to be dealt with as single issues/items for discussion or under multi-year workplans. 
The Committee agreed that the Working Group of the Whole, the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space and the Working Group on the Long-term Sustainability of Outer Space Activities should be reconvened at the fifty-first session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
The Committee agreed that the topic for the symposium to be organized in 2014 by the Office for Outer Space Affairs, in accordance with the agreement reached by the Subcommittee at its forty-fourth session, in 2007 (A/AC.105/890, annex I, para. 24), should be “Commercial applications of global navigation satellite systems”. C. Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its fifty-second session 
The Committee took note with appreciation of the report of the Legal Subcommittee on its fifty-second session (A/AC.105/1045), which contained the results of its deliberations on the items considered by the Subcommittee in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The Committee expressed its appreciation to Tare Charles Brisibe (Nigeria) for his able leadership during the fifty-second session of the Subcommittee. 
The representatives of Algeria, Austria, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Japan, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. A statement was also made under the item by the representative of Chile on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. The observer for Unidroit also made a statement under the item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by other member States. 
Under the item, the Committee heard a presentation entitled “The current status of the education and research on space law in China” by the representative of China. 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 32-50). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions and recommendations of the Subcommittee and its Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space, which had been reconvened under the 26 V.13-84944 chairmanship of Jean-François Mayence (Belgium) (A/AC.105/1045, para. 34, and annex I, paras. 9, 10, 14 and 15). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the Assembly of Parties of EUTELSAT-IGO, at its thirty-eighth meeting, held on 15 and 16 May 2013, noted that the majority of the member States of the organization were parties to the Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space and to the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, and requested the Executive Secretary of EUTELSAT-IGO to make, on behalf of the organization, and in accordance with article VII of the Registration Convention, a declaration of acceptance of the rights and obligations provided for in that Convention. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was necessary to review, update and strengthen the five United Nations treaties on outer space with a view to invigorating the guiding principles that govern the space activities of States, strengthening international cooperation and making space technology available to all people. Those delegations were of the view that such reviewing and updating should not undermine the fundamental principles underlying the existing legal regime, but should enrich and further develop those principles. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the United Nations treaties on outer space constituted a solid legal structure that was crucial for supporting the increasing scale of space activities and for strengthening international cooperation on the peaceful uses of outer space. Those delegations welcomed further adherence to the treaties and hoped that those States that had not yet ratified or acceded to the treaties would consider becoming parties to them. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the legal regime governing activities in outer space should ensure that space research and space activities benefit the quality of life and well-being of people and the prosperity of current and future generations. 
The view was expressed that a universal, comprehensive convention on outer space should be developed with the aim of finding solutions for existing issues, which would allow the international legal regime on outer space to be taken to the next level of its development. 
Some delegations expressed the view that, given the rapid increase in space activities and the emergence of new space actors, more coordination and synergy between the two Subcommittees were needed in order to promote understanding, acceptance and application of the existing United Nations treaties and to strengthen the responsibility of States in carrying out space activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Agreement Governing the Activities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies clearly established the interest of all States in the peaceful exploration and use of outer space, based on the concepts of equality and cooperation, and that discussions on the Moon Agreement should not be conducted from the viewpoint of commercial interests. 
The view was expressed that international law regulating the conduct of space activities should not restrict access to space technologies for States, especially developing countries, wishing to develop their own space capacities in a sustainable manner. V.13-84944 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 51-59). 
The Committee noted the important role of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and their contribution to its endeavours to promote the development of space law and endorsed the recommendation of the Subcommittee that such organizations should again be invited to report to the Subcommittee at its fifty-third session on their activities relating to space law. 
The Committee noted with appreciation that APSCO would host the Space Law and Policy Forum in Beijing from 26 to 28 June 2
The Committee noted that the Sofia Guidelines for a Model Law on National Space Legislation had been adopted by ILA at its seventy-fifth Conference, held from 26 to 30 August 2
Matters relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space and the character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the agenda item on matters relating to the definition and delimitation of outer space and the character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of ITU, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 60-80). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations of the Subcommittee and its Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space, reconvened under the chairmanship of José Monserrat Filho (Brazil) (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 62 and 63, and annex II, para. 8). 
Some delegations expressed the view that scientific and technological progress, the commercialization of outer space, the participation of the private sector, emerging legal questions and the increasing use of outer space in general made it necessary for the Subcommittee to intensify its work on the question of the definition and delimitation of outer space. 
The view was expressed that the development of territorial arrangements, space technology and space activities required clear definition in order to provide a basis for territorial sovereignty arrangements and that even a minimum consensus could facilitate progress in other related multilateral forums. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the lack of a definition or delimitation of outer space created legal uncertainty concerning the applicability of space law and air law, and that matters concerning State sovereignty and the boundary between airspace and outer space needed to be clarified in order to reduce the possibility of disputes among States. 28 V.13-84944 
Some delegations expressed the view that the definition and delimitation of outer space was important in relation to the issue of the liability of States and other entities engaging in space activities. That issue had become particularly topical in the light of the current intensification and diversification of space activities. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit — a limited natural resource clearly in danger of saturation — must be used rationally and should be made available to all States, irrespective of their current technical capacities. That would give States the possibility of access to the orbit under equitable conditions, bearing in mind, in particular, the needs and interests of developing countries, as well as the geographical position of certain countries, and taking into account the processes of ITU and relevant norms and decisions of the United Nations. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the geostationary orbit was part of outer space, that it was not subject to national appropriation by a claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation or by any other means, including by means of use or repeated use, and that its utilization was governed by the Outer Space Treaty, and the ITU Constitution, Convention and Radio Regulations. 
The view was expressed that Member States should seek alternative ways of using the geostationary orbit that were more rational and balanced. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the utilization by States of the geostationary orbit on the basis of “first come, first served” was unacceptable and that the Subcommittee should therefore develop a legal regime guaranteeing equitable access to orbital positions for States, in accordance with the principles of peaceful use and non-appropriation of outer space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that, in order to ensure the sustainability of the geostationary orbit, it was necessary to keep that issue on the agenda of the Subcommittee and to explore it further, through the creation of appropriate working groups and intergovernmental panels, as necessary, with technical and legal expertise in order to promote equal access to the geostationary orbit. 
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Legal Subcommittee under the item on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 81-93). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendation of the Subcommittee that the set of recommendations on legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space, contained in annex III to the report of the Subcommittee, should be submitted as a separate draft resolution for consideration by the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that States continued to undertake efforts aimed at the development of national space-related regulatory frameworks, in accordance with the United Nations treaties on outer space. 
The Committee agreed that the general exchange of information on national legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space provided States with a comprehensive overview of the current status of national space laws V.13-84944 and regulations and assisted States in understanding the different approaches taken at the national level with regard to the development of national space-related regulatory frameworks. 
Review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 94-106). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendation of the Subcommittee on the item (A/AC.105/1045, para. 106). 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was exclusively States, irrespective of their level of social, economic, scientific or technical development, that had an obligation to engage in regulatory activity associated with the use of nuclear power sources in outer space and that the matter concerned all of humanity. Those delegations were also of the view that Governments bore international responsibility for national activities involving the use of nuclear power sources in outer space conducted by governmental and non-governmental organizations and that such activities must be beneficial and not detrimental to humanity. 
Some delegations stressed that more attention should be paid to the legal issues associated with the use of satellite platforms with nuclear power sources in Earth orbits, in the light of reported failures and collisions that posed a high risk to humanity. 
Some delegations expressed the view that there should be greater coordination and interaction between the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and the Legal Subcommittee in order to promote greater understanding, acceptance and implementation of the legal instruments and the development of new legal instruments related to the use of nuclear power sources in outer space. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Legal Subcommittee should undertake an amendment of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space with a view to developing binding standards. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Legal Subcommittee should undertake a review of the Safety Framework for Nuclear Power Source Applications in Outer Space and promote binding standards with a view to ensuring that any activity conducted in outer space was governed by the principles of preservation of life and maintenance of peace. 
The view was expressed that further international and national efforts should be exerted to minimize risks of the use of satellite platforms with nuclear power sources in outer space, in particular in the geostationary orbit and low-Earth orbits, and to tackle legal problems related to collisions of such objects and other accidents and emergencies. 30 V.13-84944 
Examination and review of the developments concerning the Protocol to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment on Matters Specific to Space Assets 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the examination and review of the developments concerning the Protocol to the Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment on Matters Specific to Space Assets, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 107-114). 
The Committee noted the efforts made by Unidroit to promote the early entry into force of the Protocol, which had been adopted in Berlin on 9 March 2
The Committee noted that the Protocol had been signed by Burkina Faso, Germany, Saudi Arabia and Zimbabwe and that, in order for it to enter into force, 10 ratifications, acceptances, approvals or accessions were needed, as well as certification by the supervisory authority confirming that the international registry for space assets was fully operational. 
The Committee also noted that, pending the entry into force of the Protocol, a Preparatory Commission for the Establishment of the International Registry for Space Assets had been established to act with full authority as the provisional supervisory authority of the future international registry and that the Preparatory Commission operated under the guidance of the Unidroit General Assembly. In that regard, the Committee noted that the first session of the Preparatory Commission had been held at the headquarters of Unidroit in Rome on 6 and 7 May 2013 and that it had established two working groups, one tasked with drafting regulations for the future international registry for space assets and the other with drafting a request for proposals for the selection of the registrar of that registry. 
The Committee further noted that the representatives of ITU had reported to the Preparatory Commission that, as a follow-up to the diplomatic Conference for the adoption of the draft protocol held in Berlin, the ITU Secretary-General continued to express interest in the possibility of ITU accepting the role of supervisory authority, subject to final approval by the ITU governing bodies, and had authorized the participation of ITU representatives in the work of the Preparatory Commission. In that regard, the Committee noted that the Preparatory Commission, at its session in May 2013, also agreed on a strict timetable for future work, with the aim of discussing a finalized version of the registry regulations by early 2014 at the latest, in time for the ITU Council session and Plenipotentiary Conference to be held in 2
Capacity-building in space law 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on capacity-building in space law, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 115-133). 
The Committee endorsed the recommendations of the Subcommittee on the agenda item (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 131 and 133). 
The Committee agreed that research, training and education in space law were of paramount importance to national, regional and international efforts to further V.13-84944 develop space activities and to increase knowledge of the legal framework within which space activities were carried out. 
The Committee noted that the exchange of views on national and international efforts to promote a wider appreciation of space law and endeavours such as the annual workshops on space law and the development of the curriculum on space law played a vital role in building capacity in space law. 
The Committee noted with appreciation the holding of the eighth United Nations workshop on space law, on the theme “Contribution of space law to economic and social development”. The workshop, held in Buenos Aires from 5 to 8 November 2012, had been hosted by the Government of Argentina and organized jointly by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the National Commission on Space Activities of Argentina, with the support of ESA. 
The Committee noted that the Office for Outer Space Affairs planned to organize a session on space law on the margins of the fifth African Leadership Conference on Space Science and Technology for Sustainable Development, to be held in Ghana in 2
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the education curriculum on space law would be finalized in 2013 and that it would constitute a dynamic educational tool that could be easily used by educators from different professional backgrounds. The Committee welcomed the fact that the curriculum would also include a web-based compilation of reading materials, to be found on the website of the Office for Outer Space Affairs, which would be updated as new or additional materials were identified. 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Legal Subcommittee under the item on the general exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, as reflected in the report of the Legal Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 134-160). 
The Committee expressed concern over the increasing amount of space debris and noted with satisfaction that the endorsement by the General Assembly, in its resolution 62/217, of the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space2 was a key step in providing all spacefaring nations with guidance on how to mitigate the problem of space debris, and encouraged Member States to consider voluntary implementation of the Guidelines. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that some States had taken measures to enforce the implementation of internationally recognized guidelines and standards relating to space debris through relevant provisions in their national legislation. Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-second Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/62/20), paras. 117 and 118 and annex. 32 V.13-84944 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Legal Subcommittee should develop legal mechanisms to deal with the issue of space debris and consequences arising from collisions with space debris or their re-entry into the atmosphere. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Legal Subcommittee should address legal implications and concerns of space debris removal. 
Some delegations expressed the view that there should be greater coordination and interaction between the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and the Legal Subcommittee in order to promote greater understanding, acceptance and implementation of the legal instruments — and the development of new legal instruments — relating to the issue of space debris. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Space Debris Mitigation Guidelines of the Committee should be given a higher legal status, which might help to reinforce the regulatory framework at the global level. 
The view was expressed that a document compiling national practices and legislation relating to space debris mitigation guidelines and instruments adopted by Member States and regional organizations would encourage the development of new national measures and practices. 
Review of international mechanisms for cooperation in the peaceful exploration and use of outer space 
The Committee noted the discussion of the Legal Subcommittee under the item on the review of international mechanisms for cooperation in the peaceful exploration and use of outer space, in accordance with its five-year workplan, and that in 2013 the Subcommittee had conducted an exchange of information on the range of existing international space cooperation mechanisms, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 161-174). 
The Committee endorsed the decisions of the Subcommittee as contained in its report (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 163 and 174). 
The Committee noted with appreciation that the Subcommittee had elected Setsuko Aoki of Japan as Chair of the Working Group on the Review of International Mechanisms for Cooperation in the Peaceful Exploration and Use of Outer Space, to be convened in 2
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the exchange of information under the new agenda item on a broad range of international cooperative mechanisms employed by member States with a view to identifying common principles and procedures was of important significance to member States as they considered relevant mechanisms to facilitate future cooperation in the exploration and peaceful uses of outer space. 
The Committee noted that the review of the mechanisms for cooperation in space activities would contribute to the further strengthening of international cooperation in the exploration and peaceful uses of outer space. In that regard, the Committee also noted that 2017, the final year of consideration of the agenda item, according to its workplan, would coincide with the fiftieth anniversary of the Outer Space Treaty. V.13-84944 
Draft provisional agenda for the fifty-third session of the Legal Subcommittee 
The Committee took note of the discussion of the Subcommittee under the item on the draft provisional agenda for the fifty-third session of the Legal Subcommittee, as reflected in the report of the Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1045, paras. 177-194). 
The Committee agreed to include “General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space”, proposed by Japan and supported by Austria, Canada, France, Nigeria and the United States, as contained in document A/AC.105/L.288, as an item to be considered on the agenda of the Legal Subcommittee. 
On the basis of its deliberations and the deliberations of the Legal Subcommittee at its fifty-second session, the Committee agreed that the following items should be considered by the Subcommittee at its fifty-third session: Regular items 
Election of the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations relating to space law. 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space. 
Matters relating to: (a) The definition and delimitation of outer space; (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. 
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. 
Capacity-building in space law. Single issues/items for discussion 
Review and possible revision of the Principles Relevant to the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space. 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space. Items considered under workplans 
Review of international mechanisms for cooperation in the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. 34 V.13-84944 (Work for 2014 as reflected in the multi-year workplan contained in the report of the Legal Subcommittee on its fifty-first session (A/AC.105/1003, para. 179)) New items 
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its fifty-fourth session. 
The Committee agreed that the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space and the Working Group on Matters Relating to the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space should be reconvened at the fifty-third session of the Legal Subcommittee, and that the Working Group on the Review of International Mechanisms for Cooperation in the Peaceful Exploration and Use of Outer Space would be convened to begin its work at that session. 
The Committee also agreed that the Subcommittee should review, at its fifty-third session, the need to extend beyond that session the mandate of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space. 
The Committee agreed that IISL and the European Centre for Space Law should be invited to organize a symposium on space law at the fifty-third session of the Subcommittee. 
The view was expressed that a revision of the agenda of the Subcommittee could help to make the work of the Subcommittee more structured and efficient and could encompass a reduced number of items that would incorporate the substance of all existing items on the agenda of the Subcommittee. A division of the sessions of the Subcommittee into two parts could be undertaken, with one week being dedicated to expert group discussions of topics chosen during the previous session and the second week being reserved for the exchange of views between government representatives. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the current two-week period allotted for the work of the Legal Subcommittee should be maintained in order to ensure that issues arising in the future in relation to the legal framework of space activities were given adequate attention. A further reason for maintaining that duration was that the Subcommittee continued to have before it matters that required due consideration from a legal point of view. D. Space and sustainable development 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Space and sustainable development”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The representatives of Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Canada, Chile, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Nigeria, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Switzerland, the United States and Venezuela (Bolivarian V.13-84944 Republic of) made statements under the item. Representatives of other member States made statements relating to the item during the general exchange of views. 
The Committee had before it the following: (a) Discussion paper submitted by Japan entitled “Draft proposed workplan for a mechanism of cooperative deliberation for space and sustainable development: bridging the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.8); (b) Conference room paper entitled “Rio+20 and beyond” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.7). 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Japanese proposal on space and sustainable development”, by the representative of Japan; (b) “Benefits of space technologies in Burkina Faso: the case of urban planning”, by the representative of Burkina Faso; (c) “Spatial information to support Burkina Faso’s integral municipalization in the climate change context”, by the representative of Burkina Faso. 
The Committee welcomed paragraph 274 in the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled “The future we want”, in which the Conference recognized the importance of space-technology-based data, in situ monitoring and reliable geospatial information for sustainable development policymaking, programming and project operations. 
The Committee noted the value of space technology and applications and space-derived data and information in contributing to sustainable development, including in the areas of land and water management, marine and coastal ecosystems, health care, climate change, disaster risk reduction and emergency response, navigation, seismic monitoring, natural resources management, biodiversity, agriculture and food security. 
The Committee agreed to include the consideration of marine and coastal ecosystems as a special theme for discussion under the agenda item. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that a side event of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, entitled “Space for sustainable development”, had been organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs with the support of the Governments of Austria and Brazil on 19 June 2012 to discuss the contribution of space-based information and technologies to support the implementation of Conference outcomes and actions. 
The Committee welcomed the conference room paper entitled “Rio+20 and beyond” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.7), which provided an overview of the process for implementing the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development at the intergovernmental level and outlined the mechanisms for consideration of the post-2015 development agenda. 
The Committee encouraged member States to liaise nationally with their respective authorities and departments responsible for the intergovernmental processes related to the Conference and the post-2015 development agenda in order 36 V.13-84944 to promote the inclusion in those processes of the relevance of space science and technology applications and the use of space-derived geospatial data. 
The Committee noted that progress towards the achievement of sustainable development goals needed to be assessed and accompanied by targets and indicators, while taking into account different national circumstances, capacities and levels of development, and encouraged the Office for Outer Space Affairs to cooperate with the United Nations regional economic commissions in promoting the use of global, integrated and scientifically based information for sustainable development. 
The Committee requested the Office for Outer Space Affairs to take an active part in the United Nations System Task Team on the Post-2015 United Nations Development Agenda and other inter-agency mechanisms for the processes related to the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and the post-2015 development agenda, within its capacities, in order to promote the inclusion of space-related references and elements in the documentation generated by the United Nations Secretariat under those processes. 
The Committee noted the discussion paper submitted by Japan (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.8) containing a draft proposed workplan for a mechanism for cooperative deliberation on space and sustainable development involving the Committee and the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, and further noted that a revised draft proposed workplan would be submitted by Japan to the Subcommittee for consideration at its fifty-first session, in 2
Some delegations expressed the view that the discussion paper submitted by Japan could serve as a basis for closer interaction between the Committee and the Subcommittee in discussion of the agenda item of the Subcommittee on “Space technology for socioeconomic development in the context of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and the post-2015 development agenda” and the agenda item of the Committee on “Space and sustainable development”. 
The Committee requested the Secretariat to establish a web page dedicated to the theme “space and sustainable development”, which would contain documents relating to the use of space technology for sustainable development. 
The Committee requested the Office for Outer Space Affairs to consider organizing a workshop on space technology for sustainable development in mountainous regions of the Andean countries, to be held in Quito in 2
The view was expressed that the Committee should make full use of existing tools, including those developed in the framework of the Group on Earth Observations and the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites, and avoid the establishment of redundant mechanisms. 
The Committee noted the information provided by States on their actions and programmes aimed at increasing awareness and understanding in society of the applications of space science and technology for meeting development needs. 
The Committee noted the continued role played by the International Space Station in education and outreach to educational communities worldwide. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the large number of outreach activities carried out at the regional level for building capacity through education and training V.13-84944 in using space science and technology applications for sustainable development. The Committee noted with appreciation the role played by the regional centres for space science and technology education, affiliated to the United Nations, in space-related education. 
The Committee took note of a number of space-related conferences, competitions, exhibitions, symposiums and seminars worldwide connecting educators and students and providing them with training and educational opportunities. E. Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The representatives of Japan, Mexico, the Russian Federation and the United States made statements under the item. 
The Committee heard the following presentations: (a) “Technology transfer and space business start-up in Italy”, by the representative of Italy; (b) “Space activities of Saudi Arabia”, by the representative of Saudi Arabia; (c) “The network for space science and technology development of the National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT)”, by the representative of Mexico. 
The Committee took note of the information provided by States on their national practices regarding spin-offs of space technology that had resulted in the introduction of strategies for the management of regional economic development, as well as useful innovations in numerous scientific and practical areas of civil society, such as medicine, biology, chemistry, astronomy, agriculture, geology, cartography, aviation, land and marine transport, land use planning for urban and rural development, robotics, firefighting, the development of data processing hardware and software, mining, the protection of nature and the production and transportation of energy. 
The Committee agreed that spin-offs of space technology constituted a powerful engine for technological innovation and growth in both the industrial and service sectors and that they could be beneficially applied to achieve social and economic objectives and the development of national communications infrastructure, as well as be applied in projects aimed at achieving sustainable development. 
The Committee agreed that spin-offs of space technology should be promoted because they fostered innovative technologies, thus advancing economies and contributing to the improvement of the quality of life. 
The Committee noted that Governments had successfully involved the private sector and academia in various projects in the area of spin-offs of space technology. 38 V.13-84944 
The publication Spinoff 2012, submitted by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration of the United States, was made available to the Committee. F. Space and water 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Space and water”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The representatives of Algeria, Brazil, Egypt, France, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Switzerland and the United States made statements under the item. A statement was also made by the representative of Chile on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by other member States. 
In the course of the discussion, delegations reviewed national and cooperative water-related activities, giving examples of national programmes and bilateral, regional and international cooperation. 
The Committee noted that water-related issues were becoming some of the most critical environmental problems facing humankind, often entailing political implications, and that conservation and proper utilization of existing water resources were of paramount importance for sustaining life on Earth. In that connection, space-derived data could support policymakers in making informed decisions on water resources management. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the General Assembly, in its resolution 65/154, had decided to declare 2013 the International Year of Water Cooperation, which reflected the growing awareness of and concern regarding water-related issues. 
The Committee noted the large number of space-borne platforms that addressed water-related issues and that space-derived data were used extensively in water management. The Committee also noted that space technology and applications, combined with non-space technologies, played an important role in addressing most water-related issues, including understanding and observation of global water cycles and unusual climate patterns, mapping of water courses, monitoring and mitigation of the effects of floods, droughts and earthquakes and improvement of the timeliness and accuracy of forecasts. 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the successful completion of the United Nations/Pakistan Workshop on Integrated Use of Space Technology for Food and Water Security, held in Islamabad from 11 to 15 March 2013, and noted that the Workshop had provided a valuable platform for scientists, researchers and subject experts from around the world to share experiences on agricultural and water issues in different regions of the world. 
The Committee also noted with satisfaction the successful completion of the Workshop on Remote Sensing in the Context of Floods, held in Santo Domingo from 13 to 17 May 2
The programme was organized by UN-SPIDER in cooperation with the National Emergency Commission of the Dominican Republic and provided a valuable capacity-building opportunity for experts in the region on the prevention and mitigation of disasters and effective responses thereto. V.13-84944 
The Committee noted that the Asian Water Cycle Initiative was developing an information system of systems to promote the implementation of integrated water resources management through data integration and sharing as a basis for appropriate decision-making with regard to national water policies in 20 Asian countries, and that the experiences acquired from the Initiative would also be useful in the implementation of the African Water Cycle Coordination Initiative. 
The Committee noted the activities of the Antares regional network for water management, created to study the long-term changes in coastal ecosystems in sites around Latin America, distinguishing changes caused by natural variability from those caused by external perturbations (anthropogenic effects). 
The Committee noted with satisfaction the plans to hold the third International Conference on the Use of Space Technology for Water Management, which would be jointly organized in Rabat in 2014 by the Office for Outer Space Affairs, the Government of Morocco, PSIPW and ISNET. G. Space and climate change 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Space and climate change”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The representatives of Brazil, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Pakistan, the Republic of Korea, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, Switzerland and the United States made statements under the item. A statement was also made by the representative of Chile on behalf of the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Committee heard the following presentations under the item: (a) “Methane Remote Sensing Lidar Mission (MERLIN)”, by the representatives of France and Germany; (b) “Health checkup of the Earth from space: Shizuku application”, by the representative of Japan; (c) “Variability of the Sun and its Terrestrial Impact (VarSITI) programme”, by the observer for SCOSTEP. 
The Committee noted that climate change was considered one of the greatest challenges of the present time and, as reflected in the outcome document of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, a cross-cutting issue that was adversely affecting all regions of the world through a variety of processes such as global warming, reduction in sea ice coverage and ice masses, sea-level rise, changes in large-scale current systems in oceans, unstable weather conditions and more intense or extreme weather events such as storms, tropical cyclones, floods and droughts. 
The Committee noted that satellite observations and space-derived data were indispensable tools to track climate change in its various manifestations and that, together with ground-based observations, these provided an integrated perspective 40 V.13-84944 on the changing environment of the Earth and an understanding of the implications of global climate change for humankind. In that regard, the Committee noted that satellite data were also crucial in the development of international assessments, such as climate assessment by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and ozone assessment by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). 
The Committee noted the urgency of targeting climate change and the importance of international collaboration in providing ground-based and in situ observations to complement, validate and enhance satellite data. In that regard, the Committee also noted that open access to reliable space-based Earth observation data would strengthen global efforts to combat and mitigate the impacts of climate change and adapt to its effects. 
The Committee noted that several member States had launched or planned to launch Earth observation satellites to track the manifestations and effects of climate change. The Committee also noted a number of cooperative efforts between the space agencies of several countries to launch satellites to monitor the impact of climate change and parameters related to it. 
The Committee noted that the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, at its eighth session, held in Doha from 26 November to 8 December 2012, adopted decision 1/CMP.8, entitled “Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol pursuant to its article 3, paragraph 9 (the Doha Amendment)”,3 which included new commitments for Annex I parties to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,4 who agreed to take on commitments during a second commitment period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2
The Committee noted that the ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council, held on 15 May 2013 in Kiruna, Sweden, in its declaration entitled “Vision for the Arctic”, recognized the uniqueness and fragility of the Arctic environment. The Committee also noted that non-Arctic States, including China, India, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea and Singapore, had acquired the status of observer States in the Arctic Council, to help provide expertise regarding the particularly challenging effects of climate change in polar regions. 
Some delegations described their efforts to support activities related to climate change conducted by the Group on Earth Observations, the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites, the Global Earth Observation System of Systems, the Global Climate Observing System and the Coordination Group for Meteorological Satellites, and to contribute to the global climate change mitigation and adaptation actions under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was necessary to support efforts conducted by WMO, including the Architecture for Climate Monitoring from Space and the Global Framework for Climate Services. 
Some delegations described their efforts in using satellites as an indispensable tool for monitoring emissions of greenhouse gases and aerosols and several other See FCCC/KP/CMP/2012/13/Add.
United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 2303, No. 30
V.13-84944 essential climate variables, as well as the melting of glaciers, sea ice in the polar caps and the Greenland ice sheet, land-cover changes and sea-level rise. 
Some delegations expressed the view that climate change had been provoking desertification, triggering disasters and exerting an impact on marine ecosystems and marine life, and that the effects of climate change extended to virtually all aspects of sustainable development. 
The view was expressed that the scale and gravity of the negative impacts of climate change undermined the ability of all countries, and in particular the developing countries, to achieve sustainable development and the Millennium Development Goals, and that combating climate change required immediate action, in accordance with the provisions of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. H. Use of space technology in the United Nations system 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Use of space technology in the United Nations system”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The representatives of Japan, the Russian Federation and Switzerland made statements under the item. The observer for ESCAP also made a statement. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. 
The Director of the Office for Outer Space Affairs made a statement informing the Committee about the outcomes of the thirty-third session of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities, hosted by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction in Geneva from 12 to 14 March 2
The Committee had before it the report of the Inter-Agency Meeting on that session (A/AC.105/1043). 
The Committee welcomed with appreciation the special report of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities on the use of space technology within the United Nations system for agricultural development and food security (A/AC.105/1042). The Committee recalled that previous special reports of the Inter-Agency Meeting included the note by the Secretariat entitled “Space benefits for Africa: contribution of the United Nations system” (A/AC.105/941), prepared in cooperation with the Economic Commission for Africa and in consultation with members of the Inter-Agency Meeting; and the special report of the Inter-Agency Meeting on the use of space technology within the United Nations system to address climate change issues (A/AC.105/991). 
The Committee welcomed the agreement of the Inter-Agency Meeting that the report of the Secretary-General on the coordination of space-related activities within the United Nations system for the period 2014-2015, to be prepared in 2014, should address the post-2015 development agenda, giving attention to the issue of resilience and building on the previous reports of the Secretary-General. 
The Committee agreed that the use of the abbreviation “UN-Space” would increase the visibility of the Inter-Agency Meeting and further strengthen the role of the inter-agency mechanism. 42 V.13-84944 
The Committee noted with satisfaction that the tenth open informal session of the Inter-Agency Meeting on Outer Space Activities had been organized by the Office for Outer Space Affairs and the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction on 12 March 2013 in Geneva, focusing on the theme “Space and disaster risk reduction: planning for resilient human settlements” (see A/AC.105/2013/CRP.9). The Committee noted the timeliness of the open informal session in view of the overall importance of the concept of resilience, and encouraged member States to continue to participate actively in the open informal sessions of the Inter-Agency Meeting. 
The Committee noted the cooperative efforts between member States and United Nations entities to promote the use of space technology to resolve global issues faced by humanity. In that connection, the Committee took note of the Asia-Pacific Plan of Action for Applications of Space Technology and Geographic Information Systems for Disaster Risk Reduction and Sustainable Development, 2012-2017, adopted by ESCAP at its sixty-ninth session. 
The Committee noted that the thirty-fourth session of the Inter-Agency Meeting should be held in March 2014, in conjunction with a meeting of the United Nations Geographic Information Working Group, in view of the synergies between the two inter-agency coordination mechanisms. The Committee noted that the Office for Outer Space Affairs, in its function as the secretariat of the Inter-Agency Meeting, would identify, in consultation with the co-chairs of the Working Group, the host of the thirty-fourth session of the Meeting. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee should cooperate with WMO and ICAO in the harmonization of procedures and formats for communicating information on space weather to air carriers and passengers. I. Future role of the Committee 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Future role of the Committee”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The Committee recalled its agreement at its fifty-fifth session to continue its consideration of the item at its fifty-sixth session, in 2013, for one year only. 
The representatives of Chile, China, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan and Mexico made statements under the item. During the general exchange of views, statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. The observer for ITU also made a statement under the item. 
The Committee took note with appreciation of the discussion paper entitled “Next phase in global governance for space research and utilization” (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.10), which was submitted by the current Chair of the Committee and presented a revised and updated version of the paper submitted by the Chair of the Committee in 2012 (A/AC.105/2012/CRP.4). 
The Chair of the Committee made a statement presenting the main elements in his paper and highlighted the aim of stimulating thought and promoting an open dialogue on various cross-cutting issues before the Committee. In that sense, the Chair pointed out three main pillars, namely, to strengthen the role of the V.13-84944 Committee and its Subcommittees as a unique platform at the global level for international cooperation in space science and technology and long-term space utilization for the peaceful use of outer space; to promote greater dialogue between the Committee and regional and interregional cooperation mechanisms in space activities, in particular for sustainable development; and to stimulate the further advancement of space science and technology and their applications for the benefit of all humankind. 
The Committee noted that many issues related to its future role had already been addressed under other agenda items and would therefore be reflected in other parts of the present report. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee and its Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and Legal Subcommittee indeed constituted a unique common platform for promoting international cooperation in the peaceful uses of outer space at the global level, and therefore interaction between the three bodies on the cross-cutting issues before them should be intensified. 
Some delegations expressed the view that it was important for the Committee and its Subcommittees to strengthen the setting of binding norms for space activities, in particular in view of the increasing presence of new actors in the space field, including private sector involvement. 
Some delegations expressed the view that the Committee and its Subcommittees should be more active in promoting the implementation of the five United Nations treaties on outer space and facilitating consensus on concepts and specific needs relating to outer space that lacked unified agreement, so as to further improve the legal regime governing new activities in outer space, including for the protection of the space environment, and be more practical in promoting international cooperation in space activities. 
The view was expressed that the global processes of implementing the outcome of the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development and preparing for the post-2015 development agenda needed the participation of all stakeholders in the space field and, in that context, the Committee and its Subcommittees had a responsibility to advance their common role in overall governance of space activities at the international level. 
The view was expressed that in light of valuable achievements since the establishment of the Committee more than 50 years ago, the time had now come to enhance the future role of the Committee, by forming a dedicated working group to assess organizational requirements to suit its future vision and mission. 
The Committee agreed to continue its consideration of the item at its fifty-seventh session, in 2014, for one year only. J. Other matters 
The Committee considered the agenda item entitled “Other matters”, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/
The representatives of Chile, France, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) made statements under the item. During the general exchange of views, 44 V.13-84944 statements relating to the item were also made by representatives of other member States. The observers for Belarus and Ghana made statements. A statement was also made by the observer for ISNET. 
Composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the period 2014-2015 
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 67/113 and pursuant to the measures relating to the working methods of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies,5 as endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 52/56, the Committee considered the composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the period 2014-2
The Committee noted the nominations by the African States, the Eastern European States and the Western European and other States of their candidates for the offices of Chair of the Committee, Chair of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and Chair of the Legal Subcommittee, respectively (A/67/20, paras. 328, 330 and 331). 
The Committee also noted that the Latin American and Caribbean States had decided that Ecuador would nominate its representative for the office of First Vice-Chair of the Committee for the period 2014-2015 (A/67/20, para. 329). In that regard, the Committee asked Ecuador to nominate its representative for that office before the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly. 
The Committee noted that the Asian States would nominate their candidate for the office of Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur of the Committee before the sixty-eighth session of the General Assembly. 
Membership of the Committee 
The Committee welcomed the application of Belarus for membership in the Committee (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.4) and decided to recommend to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, in 2013, that Belarus should become a member of the Committee. 
The Committee welcomed the application of Ghana for membership in the Committee (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.3) and decided to recommend to the General Assembly at its sixty-eighth session, in 2013, that Ghana should become a member of the Committee. 
The Committee encouraged States that were considering to apply for membership in the Committee, as well as member States of the Committee, to consider the possibility of acceding to the five United Nations treaties on outer space, or at least some of them, if they had not done so. Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/52/20), annex I; see also Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/58/20), annex II, appendix III. V.13-84944 
Observer status 
The Committee took note of the application of ISNET for permanent observer status with the Committee. The application and the relevant correspondence were before the Committee in conference room paper A/AC.105/2013/CRP.
The Committee decided to recommend that the General Assembly, at its sixty-eighth session, grant to ISNET the status of permanent observer with the Committee. 
The Committee requested the Secretariat to present to it, on an annual basis, information on the consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of non-governmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee. 
Organizational matters 
The Committee recalled its agreement made at its fifty-fourth session, in 2011, on certain methods to enhance the organization of work of its sessions and the sessions of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and Legal Subcommittee,6 and noted with satisfaction that those measures were already being applied successfully in the sessions of the Subcommittees and the Committee. In that regard, the Committee stressed the need for maximum flexibility in the scheduling of agenda items in order to optimize the balance between the consideration of agenda items in plenary meetings and work conducted in working groups. 
The Committee had before it a proposal by Greece on matters relating to the membership of the Committee, the composition of the bureaux and the duration of sessions of the Committee and its Subcommittees (A/AC.105/2013/CRP.22). 
Some delegations expressed the view that the organization and methods of work of the Committee and its Subcommittees were a key element in strengthening the functioning and role of those bodies and invited delegations to engage constructively in consultations on proposals to make the work of those bodies more efficient and result oriented. 
The view was expressed that member States should pay attention to the timely submission of documents to the Secretariat, in order to ensure their translation into the six official languages of the United Nations in time for the sessions of the Committee and its Subcommittees. 
The view was expressed that all conference room papers should, if possible, be translated into the six official languages of the United Nations. 
The view was expressed that, in the scheduling of the meetings, precedence should be given to substantive discussions on agenda items in plenary and in working groups, as well as other important matters, instead of technical presentations, in order to make the most efficient use of the interpretation services, and that an assessment should be made regarding the contribution of technical presentations to the work done in the Committee. Ibid., Sixty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 20 (A/66/20), para. 
V.13-84944 
Draft provisional agenda for the fifty-seventh session of the Committee 
The Committee recommended that the following items be considered at its fifty-seventh session, in 2014: 
Election of officers. 
General exchange of views. 
Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. 
Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its fifty-first session. 
Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its fifty-third session. 
Space and sustainable development. 
Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status. 
Space and water. 
Space and climate change. 
Use of space technology in the United Nations system. 
Future role of the Committee. 
Other matters. K. Schedule of work of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies 
