Owing to the exceptional difficulties imposed by the global coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, and without precedent for future decision-making by the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subsidiary bodies, the Legal Subcommittee agreed to cancel its fifty-ninth session and the Committee agreed to cancel its sixty-third session and to take the following decisions and actions aimed at ensuring the continuity of the activities of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies. II. Legal Subcommittee 
Election of the Chair 
In paragraph 37 of its resolution 73/91, the General Assembly endorsed the composition of the bureaux of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space and its subcommittees for the period 2020–2021 and agreed that the Committee and its subcommittees should elect their officers at their respective sessions in 2020 in accordance with that composition. 
At its sixty-first session, the Committee noted that the Asia-Pacific States had endorsed the candidature of Setsuko Aoki (Japan) for the office of Chair of the Legal Subcommittee for the period 2020–2021 (A/73/20, para. 370). 
The Legal Subcommittee elected Setsuko Aoki (Japan) to the office of Chair of the Legal Subcommittee for the period 2020–2
Contributions to the work of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixtieth session 
The Subcommittee requested the Secretariat to invite member States and permanent observers, as applicable, to submit contributions to the work of the Legal Subcommittee for its sixtieth session, to be held in 2021, in accordance with the recommendations listed in subparagraphs (a) to (f) below, which were made by the Legal Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session, in 2019: (a) The Subcommittee agreed that it was important to continue to exchange information regularly on developments in the area of national space-related regulatory frameworks and, in that regard, encouraged member States to continue to submit to the Secretariat texts of their national space laws and regulations and to provide updates and inputs for the schematic overview of national regulatory frameworks for space activities (A/AC.105/1203, para. 122); (b) The Subcommittee recommended that States members and permanent observers of the Committee inform the Subcommittee, at its fifty-ninth session, of any action taken or planned at the national, regional or international levels to build capacity in space law (A/AC.105/1203, para. 140). Furthermore, the Subcommittee invited member States to encourage contributions at the national level for future updates to the directory of educational opportunities in space law, including the information on available fellowships and scholarships (A/AC.105/1203, para. 139); (c) The Subcommittee agreed that States members of the Committee and international intergovernmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee should be invited to further contribute to the compendium of space debris mitigation standards adopted by States and international organizations by providing or updating the information on any legislation or standards adopted with regard to space debris mitigation, using the template provided for that purpose on the website of the Office for Outer Space Affairs (A/AC.105/1203, para. 185); (d) The Subcommittee encouraged States members of the Committee and international intergovernmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee to share information on their practices related to non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space, for inclusion in the compendium on V20-05811 2 mechanisms adopted by States and international intergovernmental organizations in that regard (A/AC.105/1203, para. 189); (e) The Subcommittee agreed that, in accordance with the recommendations of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space of the Legal Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1203, annex I, paras. 11 and 12), States members of the Committee and international intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee were to be invited, as appropriate, to provide comments and responses to the two questionnaires, entitled, respectively, “Set of questions provided by the Chair of the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space, taking into account the UNISPACE+50 process” (A/AC.105/1203, annex I, appendix I) and “Questionnaire on the application of international law to small-satellite activities” (A/AC.105/1203, annex I, appendix II); (f) The Subcommittee recommended that the Secretariat continue to invite States members of the Committee and permanent observers, as appropriate, to submit information in accordance with the recommendations of the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space of the Legal Subcommittee contained in document A/AC.105/1203, annex II, para. 
Scheduled informal consultations on space resources 
At its fifty-eighth session, the Legal Subcommittee agreed to hold scheduled informal consultations under the agenda item entitled “General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources” (A/AC.105/1203, para. 278). 
The Subcommittee agreed that the mandated, scheduled informal consultations, which were originally scheduled to be held during the plenary meetings at the fifty-ninth session of the Subcommittee, in 2020, will instead be held during the plenary meetings at the sixtieth session of the Subcommittee, in 2
Symposium to be held during the sixtieth session of the Legal Subcommittee 
The Committee, at its sixty-second session, endorsed the agreement reached by the Subcommittee that the International Institute of Space Law and the European Centre for Space Law should again be invited to organize a symposium, to be held during the fifty-ninth session of the Legal Subcommittee (A/74/20, para. 263). 
The Subcommittee agreed to invite the International Institute of Space Law and the European Centre for Space Law to organize a symposium to be held during the sixtieth session of the Legal Subcommittee, in 2021, in accordance with the agreement reached by the Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session, in 2019 (A/AC.105/1203, para. 282). 
Draft provisional agenda for the sixtieth session of the Legal Subcommittee 
The Committee, at its sixty-second session, agreed on the substantive items to be considered by the Subcommittee at its fifty-ninth session, in 2019 (A/74/20, para. 261). 
The Subcommittee decided to consider at its sixtieth session, to be held in 2021, the same substantive items that were recommended to be considered by the Subcommittee at its fifty-ninth session (A/AC.105/1203, para. 271): Regular items 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Information on the activities of international intergovernmental and non- governmental organizations relating to space law. 
Status and application of the five United Nations treaties on outer space. 
Matters relating to: (a) The definition and delimitation of outer space; (b) The character and utilization of the geostationary orbit, including consideration of ways and means to ensure the rational and equitable use of the geostationary orbit without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. 
National legislation relevant to the peaceful exploration and use of outer space. 
Capacity-building in space law. Single issues/items for discussion 
General exchange of information and views on legal mechanisms relating to space debris mitigation and remediation measures, taking into account the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
General exchange of information on non-legally binding United Nations instruments on outer space. 
General exchange of views on the legal aspects of space traffic management. 
General exchange of views on the application of international law to small- satellite activities. 
General exchange of views on potential legal models for activities in the exploration, exploitation and utilization of space resources. New items 
Proposals to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space for new items to be considered by the Legal Subcommittee at its sixty-first session. III. Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space 
Election of officers 
At its sixty-first session, in 2018, the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space noted that, for the period 2020–2021, the Eastern European States had endorsed the candidature of Marius-Ioan Piso (Romania) for the office of Chair of the Committee, the African States had endorsed the candidature of Francis Chizea (Nigeria) for the office of First Vice-Chair of the Committee, and the Latin American and Caribbean States had endorsed the candidature of Ricardo Gil Ochoa (Colombia) for the office of Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur of the Committee (A/73/20, paras. 366–368). 
In its resolution 74/82, the General Assembly reiterated, with regard to the composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subcommittees for the period 2020–2021, that the Committee and its subcommittees should elect their officers at their respective sessions in 2020 in accordance with that composition. 
The Committee elected Marius-Ioan Piso (Romania) to the office of Chair of the Committee for the period 2020–2
The Committee elected Francis Chizea (Nigeria) to the office of First Vice-Chair of the Committee for the period 2020–2
V20-05811 4 
The Committee elected Nicolás Botero Varón (Colombia) to the office of Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur of the Committee for the period 2020–2021.1 
The Committee endorsed the election of Natália Archinard (Switzerland) to the office of Chair of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and of Setsuko Aoki (Japan) to the office of Chair of the Legal Subcommittee for the period 2020–2
Endorsement of the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee endorsed the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its fifty-seventh session (A/AC.105/1224). (a) Contributions to the work of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session 
At its fifty-seventh session, the Subcommittee made the following recommendations and requested the Secretariat to invite Member States and permanent observers of the Committee, as applicable, to make contributions to the work of the Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session: (a) The Subcommittee recommended that the Secretariat continue to invite Member States to submit annual reports on their space activities (A/AC.105/1224, para. 34); (b) The Subcommittee took note of paragraph 13 of General Assembly resolution 74/82 and agreed that Member States and international organizations having permanent observer status with the Committee should continue to be invited to provide reports on research on space debris, the safety of space objects with nuclear power sources on board, problems relating to the collision of such space objects with space debris and the ways in which debris mitigation guidelines were being implemented (A/AC.105/1224, para. 109); (c) The Subcommittee endorsed the report of the Working Group on Space and Global Health (A/AC.105/1224, para. 247), which contained the following relevant requests: (i) The Working Group requested the Secretariat to invite further contributions to the questionnaire on policies, experiences and practices in the use of space science and technology for global health (A/AC.105/1224, annex III, para. 13 and appendix); (ii) The Working Group also requested the Secretariat to continue to invite States members of the Committee to provide the details of national points of contact for the Working Group (A/AC.105/1224, annex III, para. 14). 
The Committee endorsed the Subcommittee’s requests to the Secretariat to invite Member States and permanent observers of the Committee, as applicable, to submit contributions to the work of the Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session, to be held in 2021, as reflected in paragraph 19 above. (b) Draft provisional agenda for the fifty-eighth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, at its fifty-seventh session, agreed on the items to be proposed to the Committee for inclusion in the agenda of the Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session, in 2021 (A/AC.105/1224, para. 260). 
The Committee endorsed the agreement by the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee (A/AC.105/1224, para. 260) that the following items be included in the agenda of the Subcommittee at its fifty-eighth session: See the official communication from the Office for Outer Space Affairs to States members of the Committee dated 8 September 2
Adoption of the agenda. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views and introduction of reports submitted on national activities. 
United Nations Programme on Space Applications. 
Space technology for sustainable socioeconomic development. 
Matters relating to remote sensing of the Earth by satellite, including applications for developing countries and monitoring of the Earth’s environment. 
Space debris. 
Space-system-based disaster management support. 
Recent developments in global navigation satellite systems. 
Space weather. 
Near-Earth objects. 
Long-term sustainability of outer space activities. 
Future role and method of work of the Committee. 
Use of nuclear power sources in outer space. (Work for 2021 as reflected in the multi-year workplan of the Working Group (A/AC.105/1138, annex II, para. 9)) 
Space and global health. (Work for 2021 as reflected in the multi-year workplan of the Working Group (A/AC.105/1202, annex III, para. 5 and appendix I)) 
Examination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the geostationary orbit and its utilization and applications, including in the field of space communications, as well as other questions relating to developments in space communications, taking particular account of the needs and interests of developing countries, without prejudice to the role of the International Telecommunication Union. (Single issue/item for discussion) 
Draft provisional agenda for the fifty-ninth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee. 
Report to the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. (c) Reconvening of the working groups of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee agreed that the Working Group of the Whole, the Working Group on the Use of Nuclear Power Sources in Outer Space and the Working Group on Space and Global Health should be reconvened at the fifty-eighth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee in 2
(d) Long-term sustainability of outer space activities 
Recalling paragraphs 165–168 of its report on its sixty-second session (A/74/20) and paragraphs 195 and 196 of the report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its fifty-seventh session (A/AC.105/1224), and acknowledging the unique circumstances surrounding the global coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, the Committee decided that the bureau of the working group under the agenda item long-term sustainability of outer space activities should be elected at the beginning of the fifty-eighth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee in 2
The Working Group should also agree on its own terms of reference, methods V20-05811 6 of work and dedicated workplan at the fifty-eighth session of the Subcommittee in 2
(e) Symposium to be held during the fifty-eighth session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee 
The Committee endorsed the agreement reached by the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee that the International Astronautical Federation would organize a symposium to be held at the fifty-eighth session of the Subcommittee, in 2021 (A/AC.105/1224, annex I, para. 13), and agreed that human spaceflight would be the topic of the symposium. 
Endorsement of the decisions of the Legal Subcommittee 
The Committee endorsed the decisions and actions of the Legal Subcommittee (see paras. 2–11 above). (a) Contributions to the work of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixtieth session 
The Committee endorsed the Subcommittee’s requests to the Secretariat to invite member States and permanent observers, as applicable, to submit contributions to the work of the Legal Subcommittee at its sixtieth session, to be held in 2021 (see para. 5 above). (b) Draft provisional agenda for the sixtieth session of the Legal Subcommittee 
The Committee endorsed the decision of the Legal Subcommittee to consider, at its sixtieth session in 2021, the same substantive items that were recommended to be considered by the Subcommittee at its fifty-ninth session (see A/AC.105/1203, para. 271, and paras. 10 and 11 above). (c) Reconvening of the working groups of the Legal Subcommittee 
The Committee agreed that the Working Group on the Status and Application of the Five United Nations Treaties on Outer Space and the Working Group on the Definition and Delimitation of Outer Space should be reconvened at the sixtieth session of the Legal Subcommittee in 2
“Space2030” agenda 
In accordance with General Assembly resolution 73/6, the decisions made by the Committee at its sixty-first session (A/73/20, paras. 358–363) and the method of work and workplan of the Working Group on the “Space2030” Agenda of the Committee (A/AC.105/1202, annex IV, appendix), the Working Group on the “Space2030” Agenda held meetings during the fifty-seventh session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, in 2020 (see A/AC.105/1224, annex IV). 
On the basis of the work of the Working Group during the fifty-seventh session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee, the revised draft “Space2030” agenda and implementation plan (A/AC.105/C.2/L.316) has been made available in the six official languages of the United Nations, in accordance with its workplan, for further consideration. 
In the light of the cancellation of the fifty-ninth session of the Legal Subcommittee and the sixty-third session of the Committee in 2020, and hence the cancellation of the meetings of the Working Group that were to be held as per its workplan for the remainder of 2020, the Committee decided to extend the Working Group’s workplan for one year2 in order to enable the Working Group to consider a As the Working Group on the “Space2030” Agenda held meetings during the fifty-seventh session of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee in 2020 and had to cancel the meetings for the remainder of 2020, the Working Group will meet in 2021 during the sixtieth session of the Legal Subcommittee and the sixty-fourth session of the Committee. final consolidated draft of the “Space2030” agenda and implementation plan and submit it to the Committee at its sixty-fourth session, in 2021, under the agenda item “‘Space2030’ agenda”, which is to be maintained on the agenda of the Committee at its session in 2021, and decided that the Committee will consider the outcome of the Working Group’s work and provide it to the General Assembly for consideration by the Assembly at its seventy-sixth session, to be held in 2
Nomination of officers of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the period 2022–2023 
In paragraph 11 of its resolution 58/89, the General Assembly endorsed the agreement reached by the Committee on the future composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies (A/58/20, annex II, paras. 5–9) on the basis of the measures relating to the working methods of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies (see A/52/20, annex I, and A/58/20, annex II, appendix III), which had been endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 52/
In accordance with the measures relating to the future composition of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies, the Committee should reach agreement at its sixty-third session on the nomination of all officers of the bureaux of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies for the term of office 2022–2
The Committee noted that the Eastern European States have endorsed the candidature of Oleg Ventskovsky (Ukraine) for the office of Second Vice-Chair/Rapporteur of the Committee for the period 2022–2
The Committee noted that the Asia-Pacific States, the Western European and other States, the Latin American and Caribbean States and the African States would nominate their candidates for the offices of Chair of the Committee, First Vice-Chair of the Committee, Chair of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee and Chair of the Legal Subcommittee, respectively, for the period 2022–2023, before the next session of the Committee, to be held in 2
Draft provisional agenda for the sixty-fourth session of the Committee, to be held in 2
The Committee decided to consider at its sixty-fourth session, to be held in 2021, the same substantive items that were recommended to be considered by the Committee at its sixty-third session, in 2020 (A/74/20, para. 374). The items are: 
Opening of the session. 
Adoption of the agenda. 
Statement by the Chair. 
General exchange of views. 
Ways and means of maintaining outer space for peaceful purposes. 
Report of the Scientific and Technical Subcommittee on its fifty-eighth session. 
Report of the Legal Subcommittee on its sixtieth session. 
Space and sustainable development. 
Spin-off benefits of space technology: review of current status. 
Space and water. 
Space and climate change. 
Use of space technology in the United Nations system. 
Future role and method of work of the Committee. 
Space exploration and innovation. V20-05811 8 
“Space2030” agenda. (Work under a multi-year workplan of the working group (see A/AC.105/1202, annex IV)) 
Other matters. 
Schedule of work of the Committee and its subsidiary bodies in 2021 
